Just imagine yourself looking up into the sky and knowing that you are on another planet doing something that no else has ever done before. To be able to go out in Mars's atmosphere and enjoy all that another planet has to offer just as we have for our home planet Earth. Things will be limited to what you can do because you will be limited to a space suit. But there are other things that access to another planet has to offer. Such as the advancement of what make up the galaxy to a better understanding of space. This may sound crazy but having access to another planet could also prove to be a military tactic as well as a trip of a lifetime. Have you ever seen the Disney movie called John Carter? If not it gives the viewer a very accurate picture of what Mars looks like and how different species call the planet home.

The idea about colonizing another planet has been circling for many years. Mars One, a private funded group, has developed a mission who is looking for the best candidates to colonize the planet. These candidates will have to go through an intensive selection process.  Although once you reach the final destination of Mars, there will be no return for you. Yes the trip to Mars is one way. The article, "Mars One: Human Rights Out of this World" by Clair Tsimpourla, describes the processes, rules and regulations behind the mission, and why the organizers may be violating their volunteers rights. "It results that any private mission is automatically considered a State mission  --  having been granted and supervised by the State. That said, how can the Netherlands endorse a colonization mission, which clearly goes against international law and the Treaty is has ratified"? (Tsimpourla).

The second article is, "How to Land a Human on Mars" by Piers Bizony.  This article is important because it lets us, the reader know about the exploration of Mars. George Bush actually had NASA propose a mission to Mars. The mission would however be under jeopardy by Robert Zubrin, engineer at Martin Marietta. It consisted of an 18 month trip with only two weeks actually spent on the planet. This sounds crazy to think that anyone would agree to a $500 billion dollar cost with only two weeks spent on the ground. Robert Zubrin had a few proposals but finally settled on the idea of Mars Direct. Mars Direct is " a scheme in which each small subcomponent lifts off from the Earth and heads straight for Mars without lingering in Earth orbit"(41, Bizony ) However time spent on the planet stretches from two weeks to eighteen months. Bizony states that best part of the plan is that the first shuttle sent out is without humans. The first shuttle will consist of the components needed for humans to live and safely return home. But NASA isn't the only one in this race to Mars. Elon Musk with SpaceX has Falcon 9, a rocket that has already completed missions to the international space station. I don't believe NASA will let anyone reach Mars before they do but Musk is on the move.

When colonizing another planet you need to be able to have an understanding of your surroundings.  More and more rovers are landing on the Martian planet and the real question we need to ask ourselves is when will we land on the planet. When will the human race set foot on Mars? "It is easy to imagine that NASA's engineers could send astronauts to Mars whenever it liked, if only the politicians would let them to get on with the job"(40). But past attempts have failed that will surprise you. George Bush Senior tried to do so back in the late eightys. In just ninety days NASA had what they called a plan. The problem with this plan is that they would only spend two weeks on the planet. Two weeks is not a long time, and I wouldn't want my tax dollars going to this mission that only resulted in two weeks of actual observations. If there is to be a plan to send humans to Mars they need to stay there, at least for an extended period of time. The human race has always been good at "living off the land" and we could do the same for this scenario. Scientist has come up with a plan to generate methane fuel and the production of oxygen. With this insight a trip to Mars is far more ideal than ever before.

In Tsimpourla article, she shows pathos, logos, and ethos throughout her article, "Mars One: Human Rights Out of This World". The use of pathos is shown when the author lays out the facts on what exactly a volunteer is giving up for this mission. They are giving up their ability to live a life and enjoy every aspect the earth has to offer. "They will never face the earthly landscape again, never feel the sunshine or the rain, and smell the flowers or the ocean" (Tsimpourla 2). These people will also never be able to see their family again (Tsimpourla 2). There are laws in place such as the Declaration of Legal Principles Governing the Activities of States in the Exploration and Uses of Outer Space. It states that all outer space activities require supervision by the state, in this case The Netherlands(3).

The author shows ethos throughout the article. By citing government and factual documents, as well the credibility of the sources shows the ethos in the article. The articles use of logos is also evident. It implements the use of logos through inductive reasoning. It gives you a couple problems such as violating international law. And it lays out what the law actually states not just a portion of it. For example, "Hereafter the 'Outer Space declaration' reads that states bear international responsibility on any outer space activities both governmental and non-governmental entities" (Tsimpourla 3).

The second source, "How to Land a Human On Mars" shows great evidence of ethos as well as pathos. The credibility found in the article shows right off the bat as it was included in the Engineering and Technology Magazine. I believe pathos is shown in this quote by Robert Zubrin, "I fired off a memo, saying it wasn't enough to simply reach our destination. We had to do something useful when we got there. I thought the plan was wrong, and too expensive. Many people at NASA were upset when I spoke out of turn." There is pure passion for Zubrin on this mission and he wont stop for anything to let this mission scheme fail. He is with others around the globe, the importance of this mission is huge not only for this generation but for generations to come.

These two articles are alike but are also very different. The first source, "Mars One: Human Rights Out of This World", is an article on the human rights of volunteers traveling to Mars. The other source, the article, "How to Land a Human On Mars", is a factual article on Mars rover Curiosity. These two articles are alike because they both have the same goal  and that is getting humans to Mars. It is shown by comparing these two articles the power of privately funded groups. Mars One, the private funded group found in the first source is looking for volunteers to be apart of their mission. While on the other side, NASA is dealing with budget constraints limiting their travel plan to the planet.

The article, "Mars One: Human Rights Out of This World" shows the controversy over the colonization of Mars. The company has been targeted for the potential violation of human rights. "National laws may not apply to the surface of the planet itself, but they do apply to their respective citizens. So does Human Rights Law  --  the crew members will always be human no matter what where they go" (Tsimpourla). The principle of right to return is being challenged, which is the right to return to your country, in this case return to Earth. Since there hasn't been a human to travel to Mars, a period of isolation and decontamination would be followed upon return home. Which is a concern on why these volunteers will not be able to return home. The importance of the information gained is important because human rights laws could potentially be violated causing international problems.  Also at this rate a NASA astronaut will not be the first to step foot on the planet Mars. I believe these finding will help me with the final project because they show the importance of traveling to Mars. There are laid out facts and information that will be used in the independent research essay.
