Starvation is still a major problem in most parts of the world but it seems to be ignored because it only affects a select group of people. The solutions need to focus on how US involvement, missionary work, more media providing information to the public, and more opportunities to donate can be of good use in eliminating hunger. The solutions will have to have long term effect in order to prevent future occurrences. Several sources shed light into some reasons why we are still facing this problem and why no real solution has been found.  
T here are a lot of reasons why hunger is still prevalent and not taken as an important issue, some claim that it is because it only affects a specific group of people. There are less dangerous killers in the world today than hunger, but hunger is pushed away and not seen as an important issue. "Hunger kills more than Ebola but it's not considered a significant problem as rich people can't get it". This quote was retrieved from twitter, accompanied by the picture of what looked like a 4 year old boy who looks very hungry and malnourished, without doubt the individual who put this quote together with the picture wanted to strike pathos in the reader.  Even though it is just a picture with a quote, I feel like it has a strong effect on any viewer and puts the issue of hunger around the world in another perspective. I agree with this author because I feel as though some sort of solution can be found, but hunger is not seen as a substantial issue because it doesn't affect the rich or well to do. I feel like the joint effort to eliminate hunger is what is necessary in this day and time. There are certainly other reasons why hunger is still a problem today but it is obviously no taken as seriously as the issue of Ebola or most other disease epidemics that have broken out. It is not simply because of the obvious fact that Ebola is contagious while hunger is not that poses a problem, but the level of attention that is given when we compare both keeping in mind that one causes less damage and affects less people than the other.

The "Presidential Commission on World Hunger" gives some good reasons why the US should be concerned and what it should do in an effort to eliminate world hunger. The presidential commission states that it is the moral obligation and responsibility of the US to find ways to stop hunger around the world, especially in developing countries. The reason for this is that for other problems to be solved, people need to be fed and need to receive simple human requirements. "Whether one speaks of human rights or basic human needs, the right to food is the most basic of all. Unless that right is first fulfilled, the protection of other human rights becomes a mockery for those who must spend all their energy merely to maintain life itself" (Presidential commission 1). This reveals to me that of all the issues that might be of concern to the US, Starvation should be the most important one of all and a solution should be found. The presidential commission also describes national security as a reason who the US should be involved in eliminating world hunger. The commission believed that a joint effort to defeat hunger and poverty not just a temporary mission is key to both national and global security (Presidential commission 3).

Lappe, talks about 12 myths of world hunger and highlights some reasons as to why it still exists. I believe they are called myths because they are not true and can be easily solved if some aspect of it does seem to be a hindrance.  The myth that spoke to me the most is the excuse of there being "too many mouths to feed". Lappe states that the popular belief is that "Hunger is caused by too many people pressing against finite resources. We must slow down population growth before we can hope to alleviate hunger" (Lappe 23) Lappe explains that the only way one can link two things together such as population density and hunger is if they consistently occur together. Lappe states that these two do not and so should not be associated with each other. "If too many people caused hunger, then reducing population density could indeed alleviate it. But for one factor to cause another, the two must consistently occur together. Population density and hunger do not" (Lappe 23).  Another myth that Lappe discusses is that trying to eliminate hunger by controlling farmers will simply create a bigger problem and but Lappe argues that government involvement is the real problem.

Hunger has existed as a continuous almost unsolvable problem for years without a solution. Inside "World Hunger" edited by Claire Stanford contains other write-ups by others on the issue of solving world hunger. "The immediate sufferers are children. They become malnourished as milk, their only source of proper nutrition, diminishes" (The nation 41). The group most affected by poverty or hunger are children because they have no way of fending for themselves and so they rely solely on the help of others around them, to feed and shelter them. This goes back to the issue discussed earlier of hunger only being isolated to a specific group and this is why no significant efforts have been made to stop it.

I believe a solution can be found to eliminate world hunger by the government of that country working hand in hand with the people of the country to find the source of the problem which will lead to finding a permanent solution. Hunger and poverty exists all over the world and I honestly believe that it is the responsibility of the leaders of the country to find a solution to this problem. The issue is that most developing countries tend to want to rely on outside help that may not be sufficient and this causes more issues and doesn't solve hunger.  "If the United States is to make the elimination of hunger the major focus of its relationships with the developing world, then we must also deal with hunger and malnutrition at home. The U.S "war on hunger" did much in the last decade to reduce the number of people suffering from hunger and hunger related problems. Yet there are still hungry people in this country" (Presidential Commission 15). The extent of hunger in the US is incomparable to the amount of hunger victims in developing countries but it is still a factor, and it exists all over the world, therefore, joint effort is a possible beginning to a solution.  From these sources and evidence I have presented it still seems as though no true solution has been found but the important thing is that efforts are still being made especially by volunteers of missionary work.

The guardian newspaper published an article in 2013 listing eight ways to solve world hunger. One of the solutions listed is to support small farmers. I completely agree with this solution and I feel it can be accomplished. "A combination of aid, education in low-tech methods such as better rice planting and irrigation, and the introduction of better seeds and fertilizer could spark a green revolution in Africa, such as the one that transformed South Asia in the 20th century". (Renton, Alex 2013). Supporting local farmers will indeed enhance efforts to end hunger. Local farmers will be able to provide food to the people in the area at a cheaper rate and also provide healthier foods which will reduce malnutrition. Supporting local farming will increase the proximity of food to the people living in the area; the food will be closer and more affordable. It will create job opportunities for the farmers and even others and this will also reduce poverty. Supporting small farmers will also promote togetherness within the communities and everyone will work together for a greater good.  However, with every solution found, there is always a problem. The problem faced by small farmers is that "Rich countries have proved poor at delivering on their aid pledges. Genetically modified crops are already part of these schemes" (Renton, Alex 2013). There will have to be some kind of balance established for small farmers to prosper in production and sale. The country where the farmers live  itself will have to do its part by providing aid in order to reduce starvation and poverty. This just shows that most solutions to starvation will most likely have a problem that accompanies it but it also shows that a solution can be found to this particular problem.

Poverty, hunger, and starvation seems to have been accepted by the general because it seems like there is no feasible solution and it has always been this way and it will always be this way. During my search, I came across a very informative video that highlighted different aspects of this problem. It started by giving statistics as to how many people are fatally affected by starvation in the world. "27,000  --  30,000 people die every day due to poverty, that's around 19 people dying every minute, 1 in 12 people worldwide is malnourished including 160 million children under 5." Next it goes on to discuss a very interesting aspect of the world effort to end starvation:

"In  a world where we have achieved unbelievable feaets such as develop the abilities to take us into space and view out planet from the heavens, to see our world from a distance in its entirety, in a world where we have built telescopes powerful enough to allow us to gaze deep into the infinite cosmos, where we have travelled across our solar system and successfully landed probes on landscapes to examine its planet and then send its discoveries back to earth for analysis, in a world where some of the greatest minds and come together and succeeded to collide particles at near light speed in an attempt to discover the very fabric and secret of the universe...In a world like this we need to ask ourselves how have we not been able to cater for the basic needs of one another and what is the reason for nearly half the world deprived from the sufficient amount of resources needed in order to survive appropriately?" (CFS campaign 2014)"

This video puts the whole issue in a different perspective for me that I hadn't thought of before. IT states that many efforts have been made through donations to cater for the poor but it is obvious that those efforts are not enough. Is it possible that some sort of technological advancement is the solution to starvation? We have achieved so much as humans and advanced greatly through the years but some basic things ae still missing. We should be able to use this advancement to provide the basic needs to everyone suffering from poverty or hunger in the world. I agree with this source that the solution is not just money from donations but actual access to the food.

Poverty, Starvation, and Malnutrition are great problems we face today and no one seems to have a solution that can work. People that are not directly affected are not concerned, the rich are getting richer while the poor are getting poorer. There are several solutions that can be built upon but all need human effort in order to work so as citizens of the world we need to put our hands together to raise awareness and solutions to starvation so that innocent children can stop dying every day.
