Imagine what it would be like to look up everyday and know that you are living in another world. To be able to go outside and enjoy all that another planet has to offer just as we have for our home planet Earth. This may sound crazy but having access to another planet could prove to be a military tactic as well as a trip of a lifetime. Have you ever seen the Disney movie called John Carter? If not it gives the viewer a very accurate picture of what Mars looks like and how different species call the planet home.

Colonizing another planet is an idea that has been circling for many years. Mars One, a private funded group, has developed a mission to colonize the planet. The article, "Mars One: Human Rights Out of This World" by Clare Tsimpourla, describes the processes, rules and regulations behind the mission, and why they may be violating their volunteers rights. "It results that any private mission is automatically considered a State mission  --  having been granted and supervised by the State. That said, how can the Netherlands endorse a colonization mission, which clearly goes against international law and the Treaty it has ratified"? (Tsimpourla) The success of a mission to Mars will be tested with budget constraints, laws and agreements.

The second article, "Manned Mission to Mars by 2030s is Really Possible" by Miriam Kramer, gives a timeline on when missions to Mars will actually be possible. Because NASA is not privately funded it relies on a budget, unlike Mars One. NASA's space budget was drastically reduced from 76.7 billion to less than 20 billion dollars in 2013. With the budget reduction, programs were forced to be shutdown that have affected NASA's mission to Mars. Persons affiliated with NASA, Boeing, and Orbital Sciences Corp. came up with six agreements that space agencies could look to for a successful mission to mars. A couple of these ideas are for the human exploration of Mars possible by 2030s, to focus priority on Mars for future space flight, and use the International Space Station (ISS). By using the ISS, the astronauts could almost have a pit stop on their way to Mars. They could refuel and regenerate on their long flight to the planet. They can also use the ISS to "mimic" different aspects of the mission. The article shows some rhetorical strategies with use of logos, and ethos but also shows some pathos.

The next article is called, "How to Land a Human on Mars." This article is important because it lets us, the reader know about the issues or technical difficulties that scientist are having trying to get humans to Mars. When colonizing another planet you need to be able to have solutions to problems like water scarcity and fuel. More and more rovers are landing on the Martian planet and the real question we need to ask ourselves is when will we land on the planet. When will the human race set foot on Mars. "It is easy to imagine that Nasa's engineers could send astronauts to Mars whenever it liked, if only the politicians would let them to get on with the job"(40). But past attempts have failed that will surprise you. George Bush Senior tried to do so back in the late eightys. In just ninety days NASA had what they called a plan. The problem with this plan is that they would only spend two weeks on the planet. Two weeks is not a long time, and I wouldn't want my tax dollars going to this mission that only resulted in two weeks of actual observations. If there is to be a plan to send humans to Mars they need to stay there, at least for an extended period of time. The human race has always been good at "living off the land" and we could do the same for this scenario. Scientist has come up with a plan to generate methane fuel and the production of oxygen. With this insight a trip to Mars is far more ideal than ever before.

The author shows pathos, logos, and ethos in her article, "Mars One: Human Rights Out of This World". The use of pathos is shown when the author lays out the facts on what exactly a volunteer is giving up for this mission. They are giving up their ability to live a life and enjoy every aspect the earth has to offer. "They will never face the earthly landscape again, never feel the sunshine or the rain, and smell the flowers or the ocean" (Mars One). These people will also never be able to see their family again (Tsimpourla). There are laws in place such as the Declaration of Legal Principles Governing the Activities of States in the Exploration and Uses of Outer Space. It states that all outer space activities require supervision by the state, in this case The Netherlands.

The author shows ethos throughout the article. By citing government and factual documents, as well the credibility of the sources shows the ethos in the article. The articles use of logos is also evident. It implements the use of logos through inductive reasoning. It gives you a couple problems such as violating human.

The second source provides usage of ethos throughout the article. The article cites many organizations as well as some figureheads like Chris Carberry. Carberry is the Executive Director and co-founder of Explore Mars Inc., which is a nonprofit company whose main goal is sending humans to space.

Logos is found within this article as well. With the idea of raising the budget for NASA comes the better success of a mission to Mars. Proper funding is one of the main challenges NASA has been facing. "Unless there was a major restricting, it would be hard to accomplish a NASA-led mission," said Carberry. Another form of logos if found on the idea of the Bridge Mission. This mission is the combining of the space station and the mission to Mars. "The bridge mission could be anything from NASA's ambitious plan to capture an asteroid and bring it into lunar orbit where astronauts could explore it, to a small and temporary station where astronauts can learn a little more about fending for themselves while in space." (Kramer) The author persuades you that this bridge mission should happen for the progress of this mission.

These two articles are alike but are also very different. The first source, "Mars One: Human Rights Out of This World", is an article on the human rights of volunteers traveling to Mars. The other source, the article, "Manned Mission to Mars by 2030s is Really Possible", is a factual article on the budget restraints and restrictions followed by it. These two articles are alike because they both have the same goal and that is traveling to Mars. It is shown by comparing these two articles the power of privately funded groups. Mars One, the private funded group found in the first source is looking for volunteers to be apart of their mission. While on the other side, NASA is dealing with budget constraints limiting their travel plan to the planet.

The article, "Mars One: Human Rights Out of This World" shows the controversy over the colonization of Mars. The company has been targeted for the potential violation of human rights. "National laws may not apply to the surface of the planet itself, but they do apply to their respective citizens. So does Human Rights Law  --  the crew members will always be human no matter what where they go" (Tsimpourla). The principle of right to return is being challenged, which is the right to return to your country, in this case return to Earth. Since there hasn't been a human to travel to Mars, a period of isolation and decontamination would be followed upon return home. Which is a concern on why these volunteers will not be able to return home. The importance of the information gained is important because human rights laws could potentially be violated causing international problems.  Also at this rate a NASA astronaut will not be the first to step foot on the planet Mars. I believe these finding will help me with the final project because they show the importance of traveling to Mars. There are laid out facts and information that will be used in the independent research essay.
