An author's persuasive ability and rhetorical device usage often determines the
success of his piece. The capability of an author determines the reaction of the intended
audience. By using the simple application of rhetoric, Matt Richtel makes a piece that
could be potentially disastrous into a persuasive and enlightening essay. In 'Hooked on
Technology, and Paying a Price,' Richtel makes convincing the urgency of being able to
recognize and treat the increasing problems with technology. His persuasiveness through
kairos and stasis theory allows the piece to become worthwhile in the eyes of the
audience.

Richtel's piece shows effectiveness due to the timeliness and appropriateness of
what he chooses to write about. The increasing technology usage creates a concern for
many on whether or not the technology proves harmful. Richtel uses current events to
support his opinion that technology plays too large a role on people's lives. Even though
there are benefits to the technology increase, 'the consumption of media, as varied as e-
mail and TV, has exploded'. His topic choice shows importance among
people of different age groups and cultures because its prevalence today.

Technology shows urgency on today's society due to increased dependence on
electronics and devices. Not only does it affect singular lifestyle, but it also hampers the
family dynamic. In Richtel's example, Mrs. Campbell says how ''Technology is part of
the fabric of who [my husband] is'' and the side effects on the family are evident.
As addiction becomes a greater problem, social ties are severed because 'addicts
tend to compromise their social lives (family and friends) and neglect themselves'.
The article's urgency stems from the strain that families face
when a member becomes addicted to technology. The situation's significance allows the
article's urgency to be seen by the audience.

A rhetorical argument that relates to the audience confirms the author's overall
success. Richtel relates the topic to families and just people in general by showing how it
affects more than one person in the family. By making it relatable to more than one
group, he shows his awareness of his audience's emotions. He targets the audience's
sentiments by choosing an aspect of their lives that are most intimate, such as their
family. An effective argument employs positions that are most applicable and
understandable to an audience. Richtel employs a narrative about an ordinary family to
show that anyone can be a victim to technology. He makes it readily available so that
everyone can see the damaging effects of technology.

An argument's availability creates the range and possibility of the audience.
Richtel's article originally appeared in The New York Times, one of the most widely read
newspapers in America. Using a source with such a large scope allows Richtel to reach
into the homes of those affected by technology and force them to think about not only the
consequences but also the true impact that electronics have on their every day lives. He
uses a source that exists in print and also electronic form. Thus while reading the article,
his audience becomes forced to reevaluate their own actions and technological use. By
taking advantage of the article's availability, Richtel is able to use kairos to his gain.

Despite technology's faults, its usefulness can be viewed as an overwhelming
positive. Richtel addresses the opposite viewpoint in his article by addressing how 'the
brains of Internet users become more efficient at finding information' and how other
technologies also extend new benefits to society. He presents the opposing
arguments before breaking them down with his own views and support. Allowing the
audience to see the other side of the presentation creates a more trusting relationship with
Richtel himself and allows the audience to believe the argument more readily.

The stasis theory questioning establishes an effective article that authorizes
Richtel's argument. Presenting conjecture first permits the audience to see what will be
presented and the article will be worthwhile. By beginning the article with the story of an
affected family, readers are able to form their own opinions on whether or not an act can
be considered. In this case, readers are asked to acknowledge the overuse of technology
and if it poses a pressing problem to the continuation of society and life as it continues
now.

A definition question must be asked in order to establish the authenticity of
Richtel's argument. In his article, Richtel defines the issue by arguing how 'scientists say
juggling e-mail, phone calls and other incoming information can change how people
think and behave'. Technology causes a problem with the way people
manage time and work, generally decreasing efficiency. Allowing an argument to be
made to define the issue at hand creates agreement among the audience that ultimately
gains support. Richtel uses stasis theory in this instance to receive backing for his
assertion on technology's faults.

The quality of the act can be determined through the presentation of the argument
to the audience. Even though the implication of technology might seem trivial at first to
most readers, Richtel reasons through examples and explains the seriousness of the issue
at hand. By portraying the difficulties through a family example, the audience is able to
relate and see the importance of the topic. He chooses to present the topic in this way so
that the spectators are truly able to weigh the argument and its credibility for themselves.

Richtel demonstrates policy to depict a possible solution for the ever-present
issue. Instead of explicitly stating a fix to the problem, he allows open interpretation on
the audience's end. He presents the debate throughout the paper by implementing
valuable examples that affect the readers personally because they are relatable. In
allowing for such open interpretation, Richtel creates an evaluation determined by the
readers themselves instead of being told what should be done in this specific situation.

Richtel's ability to write an effectual piece derives from his usage of kairos and
stasis theory. The rhetorical devices help make the argument relate to the audience on a
more personal level. Readers are able to question technology and its importance on
society today. By allowing the audience to connect to the examples provided, Richtel
persuades people that a technology takeover is occurring and that actions must be taken
while it can still be done.
