The modern world runs at a constant and fast pace. Not many of us stop
every now and then to realize just how wonderful life, and specifically, food is. In
Wendell Berry's essay, 'The Pleasures of Eating', he informs us of his opinion of
naturally grown food as opposed to processed and chemically fertilized food that
seems to have gained popularity. Through components of logos, ethos, and pathos,
Berry persuades his readers to sincerely contemplate the food that goes into their
mouths for their meals.

Generally, Berry approaches his argument through logos using inductive
reasoning throughout the essay. He begins with specific examples of how most
eaters 'think of themselves as consumers' (Berry 124). He provides several
opinions of how he proposes that humans perform in such a 'passive' manner by
expressing several questions modern consumers seem to overlook when
considering what they eat:
'How fresh is it? How pure or clean is it, how free of dangerous chemicals?
How far was it transported, and what did transportation add to the cost?
How much did manufacturing or packaging or advertising add to the cost?
When the food product has been manufactured or 'processed' or 'precooked',
how has that affected its quality or price or nutritional value?' (Berry 124).
By the end of the essay, Berry broadly explains, 'The pleasure of eating should be an
extensive pleasure'. Berry uses scientific, dialectical, false, and rhetorical reasoning
to pursue portraying his opinion to his readers. Scientifically, Berry discusses the
maltreatment of animals in the food industry and how they are confined to a small
space and do not get to live a free life. However, this may be related to dialectical
reasoning because the only ones who are certain of this fact are the farmers
themselves. Additional to the scientific reasoning, Berry informs his readers of how
'hygienic and biological implications of mile- 'square fields of cabbage for vegetables
grown in huge monocultures are depended on toxic chemicals'just as animals in
close confinements are dependent on antibiotics and other drugs' (Berry 126).
Experimentally, these facts are true; however, Berry does not describe why the
industry performs these tasks, merely that they do them. Dialectically, Berry
assumes that all people in the modern world are considered 'passive consumers'
and only 'buy what they want'or what they have been persuaded to want' (Berry
124). Not all humans see food as merely an industrial item. Because Berry is
criticizing basically anyone who doesn't view food in his perception, he is
specifically calling out the rest of the human race. Berry manipulates false
reasoning when he mentions, 'The current version of the 'dream home' of the future
involves 'efforless' shopping from a list of available goods on a television monitor
and heating precooked food by a remote control' (Berry 125). To an extent, I see
where Berry means that the human population is focused on efficiency of machines;
however, he degrades these technological advancements because they eliminate an
appreciative emotion toward food. Times are constantly changing, and food is one
of the principle evolving factors in the world. Rhetorically, Berry proposes that
humans blindly buy their food without questioning where it has been or what has
been done to it. In fact, most grocery shoppers may glance at a nutritional label now
and then; however, I highly doubt many shoppers do extensive research on the food
they are buying for themselves or others. Because the food demand is always high,
Berry states, 'The food is produced by any means or any shortcuts that will increase
profits' (Berry 126). Through many examples, Berry illustrates his opinion to his
readers through the use of logos.

In addition to logos, Berry also uses methods of ethos to convey his opinion
about food. Berry's essay was written in 1989, yet is concerning a still modern day
issue. He follows a sort of Amish way of farming seeing as how, in his opinion,
everything should be natural and not tampered with any type of preservative or
chemical in any way. Berry demonstrates that he has good sense through his
extensive knowledge of farming processes without sounding crazy or obsessed. He
also emulates good virtue because he seems to only want what is best and healthiest
for the consumers. His good will is solely based on the health benefits of being
aware of one's food and its nutritional facts. There are provided tips and guidelines
on how to understand what one is eating:
'Participate in food production to the extent that you can', 'Prepare your
own food', 'Learn the origins of the food you buy, and buy the food that is
produced closes to your home', 'Deal directly with a local farmer, gardener,
or orchardist', 'Learn' of the economy and technology of industrial food
production', 'Learn what is involved in the best farming and gardening',
'Learn as much as you can' of the life histories of the food species' (Berry
127).
Berry's situated ethos consists of how his methods are generally old- 'fashioned. His
education is questionable, and he seems self- 'interested; however, he is concerned
for the well being of others. From extensive examples, Berry proves his point
through ethos.

Not only does Berry use ethos to convey his opinion, but also pathos. The
persuasion in his essay arouses many emotions in his readers in attempt to convince
them to agree with him. Berry's essay brings about senses of guilt, self- 'worth,
dependency, and ignorance. He slightly induces guilt in his readers' by denouncing
their eating habits and suggesting, in his view, a better source of dieting. Raising
awareness of one's self worth comes into play by Berry's consistent criticism of the
modern day's eating habits. He believes that one should deserve better food and to
enjoy eating as a pleasure. Another deep emotion that Berry evaluates about
humans is their dependency on things to be pre- 'accomplished for them; that
everything should be performed beforehand for them already. Berry condemns the
idea that humans largely indulge in pre- 'cooked food that has been processed and
chemically enhanced, and he believes that they deserve fresh food. Ignorance
manifests in Berry's review of humans as well when he chastises them for eating
frozen 'TV' dinners and merely accepting nearly anything to eat. Berry says, 'Like
industrial sex, industrial eating has become a degraded, poor, and paltry thing'
(Berry 125). By saying this, Berry reveals that he is repulsed by the eating habits of
mass consumption that humans have become accustomed to. He targets humans'
independence and manipulates his argument so that by depriving one's self of
finding the simple pleasures of eating is similar to losing one's independence. In
Berry's mind, he believes that the food industries are controlling what the
consumers should or shouldn't eat: '' we cannot be free if our minds and voices are
controlled by someone else. But we have neglected to understand that we cannot be
free if our food and its sources are controlled by someone else' (Berry 125). His
emotional targeting is rhetorically useful because attacking a human's independence
will enrage any American and force him or her to listen to what you have to say. The
enargeia Berry emits evolves around how he tells people that they are being
controlled by the food industry and not making their own decisions. When taking
away one's independence, people tend to become irritated and want to know why or
how they can fix it. This is where Berry's opinion comes into play by how to
enhance one's eating habits. The ethos portrayed throughout Berry's essay assists
him in conveying his opinion.

There are numerous ideals to aid one in persuading others to agree with his
or her opinion. Specifically, logos, ethos, and pathos are helpful to ensure a secure
argument. When used strategically, these concepts are beneficial in any persuasive
discussion.

