For centuries, younger generations have been listening to the advice of older
generations, and for centuries that advice has been ignored. I have always been more
comfortable communicating with those who are older than I am rather than those my own
age. I find that they are more interesting and open, as well as less judgmental and more
forgiving. They will listen to what I have to say with a bit of respect when considering my
age, they realize that I am young but am working to figure my life out. This understanding
makes it easier for me to express myself. I feel less self- 'conscious and am therefore able to
speak more freely. In 'Advice To Graduates' George Saunders encourages the former
students in front of him to grow in kindness. He asks them to recognize that there are
people outside of themselves and that they deserve acknowledgement. Clearly, if both he
and I see a hardness in the youth than there must be a foundation for it. I see that the
younger generations have a certain lack of kindness to them and I see that older
generations have out grown their distains and their blindness. It is apparent that I agree
with the argument presented to me but what made it so effective? George Saunders
presented his argument with the use of rhetorical concepts such as stasis theory and
kairos. They work together to target his listeners and shed light on something they may
have been blind to.

Morality doesn't posses much of a gray area, it's either right or wrong. There is some
consideration to circumstance but primarily you lie on one side of the line. Saunders's
argument lies on the morally correct side, so innately we realize that even if we don't feel
as though our generation is hard hearted we recognize that nothing in our lives could
diminish from being more kind. This makes his counter argument unnecessary. Without
showing an opposing side, his audience is likely to yield to his persuasions more willingly.
Additionally, Saunders begins his speech with a question, 'what do I regret?',
while this question was directed toward himself it allowed personal reflection within the
lives of his audience as well. As they questioned what it was they regretted most from their
mostly unlived lives, the lack of kindness that would be Saunders's conclusion probably
was the furthest thought in all of their minds. This humbles the audience; making a group
of accomplished, and maybe a bit cocky, young people question themselves and wind up
with the wrong answer, would work well to hurt their pride a little. This would make them
feel vulnerable and then they would be more susceptible to listen to what was being said.
These effective tactics represent an understanding of Stasis theory when attempting to
persuade an audience.

Additionally, Saunders uses Kairos within his argument. He adds relevance to his
argument by telling his audience to 'start right now', this adds a sense of
urgency making his audience feel pressured to not live another day in their usual habits.
Also, he mentions in his speech that he has a time constraint due to the schedule of the
program, his own desire to keep schedule adds and additional sense of pressure and
urgency to his audience. His decision to address a graduating class with this matter is
incredibly convenient as they are eager to learn and ready themselves for the next phase in
their lives, and therefore would be more apt to heed his advice. Addressing this issue to a
graduating class also shows how he is aware of and takes advantage of his venue; he is
speaking to young minds that give him the rare opportunity to help influence their, still
malleable, characters. What else is so beneficial to Saunders is that the subject, kindness,
will always be relevant and timely. Kindness as a basic moral foundation will never expire
or fade. He even argues that it will swell within us as we age and eventually consume us
until we are 'gradually replaced by LOVE'. This implies that when we gain
experience we come to realize that kindness is the easier option, it limits conflict and
allows for a better sense of respect. Once we decide to stop taking ourselves so seriously
we can exist in kindness rather than self- 'importance.

While Saunders uses many forms of rhetoric well within his argument, in my
opinion one aspect of kairos is used more heavily and acts as the main force of influence.
What makes this argument so effective is the humanity present. He presents a sense of how
we actually conduct ourselves versus how we should conduct ourselves. He presents both
sides of morality and insists that are living on the wrong side. This is highlighting his
awareness of his audience by forming a connection with them personally. His argument is
consistent with the moral life lessons younger generations have been hearing from older
generations for centuries. He paints a picture of a sad young girl being bullied by her
classmates and calls to the 'protect the innocent' instinct that exists in all of us. This image
touches his audience and gives them a sense of obligation to rise to the call to action. His
argument rests on the point of his audience realizing their faulty ways and maybe mending
the holes in their character.

His argument is made better by the existing kindness and that's what is so clever. He
makes his audience feel as though they lack a certain level of kindness by playing on the
guilt that arises from their kindness. And maybe that's what determines their true
maturity. If they are to grow in kindness then maybe the level of guilt he mustered during
this speech is the level of maturity they have achieved through their period of education.
The only real way to tell the effectiveness of this argument is to measure its consequences,
how many of the graduating students will leave the ceremony and make a true effort to be
more kind. Treating others well is not something that should be overlooked in a society,
even if its something small, like holding the door for someone else or smiling when you
pass them on the street. The whole idea behind using rhetorical devices to form an
argument is to make it persuasive and effective, so that maybe it will cause a change in
someone's ideas or values. For centuries younger generations have been listening to the
advice of older generations, and for centuries that advice has been ignored. Maybe this
speech will serve as one of the very few that will be followed.

