Throughout the article 'Hooked on Technology, and Paying a Price', Matt
Richtel demonstrates the effects of excess technology use today in a typical American
family. Kord Campbell is a successful businessman who struggles with the concept of
multitasking and escaping his unconscious actions of superfluous technology use. His
inescapable habits have taken a toll on his family life and also have affected his children
significantly. Richtel argues that the evolution of technology and its abundance of new
gadgets have caused a lack of engagement in everyday life, and has become a hardship
for all to reconnect with the important things in life. Through Richtel's application of the
kairos and stasis theory, he conveys the conflicts associated with the infatuation of
technology in today's society.

Richtel demonstrates the theory of kairos through the strong need for today's
people to have the latest up to date technology in front of them at all times. Everyday Mr.
Campbell sits in front of two monitors while managing his work and trying to stay in
touch with the latest social media. He is bombarded with an 'electronic flood: two
computer screens alive with email, instant messages, online chats, a web browser and the
computer code he is writing'. Richtel's pressing argument conveys the
severity of a typical Americans daily use of technology. This kind of overconsumption
has caused people to overlook important messages, lose track of time, and most
importantly be disengaged from their family life. Mr. Campbell is not alone, he is just
one of the millions of Americans who has revolved their lives around technology. The
timeliness of this argument is more apparent then ever as many deny the amount of time
they actually spend in front of a screen. Richtel explains that, 'scientists say juggling
email, phone calls and other incoming information can change how people think and
behave'. He demands a sense of urgency in that it is important for individuals to
realize that this solely does not affect them but those around them. Mr. Campbell's wife
is saddened by him no longer being able to focus on the important things due to his
constant yearning for more technology. Richtel's conveys the theory of kairos through
the negative effects of technology that have taken over many individuals' lives.

Through Richtel's application of kairos, he demands a sense of urgency in that the
excessive consumption of technology is now extending to the younger generations and
taking over their lives as well. Mr. Campbell's son Connor has been doing poor in school
due to the distraction of electronics and his daughter Lily is often on any small gadget she
can find. Richtel argues 'researchers worry that constant digital simulation like this
creates attention problems for children with brains that are still developing'. The
disconnect to the real world seen in many adults has affected children and they are
missing out on developing social skills and performing well in school. Richtel implores a
sense of urgency in that a child's brain is still developing and it is critical to develop
lifelong skills now to be successful later on in life. The Campbell family is often seen
together in the same room like any typical family would be enjoying each other's
company. However, instead, everyone is focused on video games, their phones, or surfing
the Internet. Clifford Nass who is a communications professor at Standard explains, 'the
way we become more human is by paying attention to each other' it shows how much
you care'. Simple human interaction has become a struggle for many. The adults of
today's society have revolved their lives around their work and use of technology. Richtel
illustrates this has become a trickle-down effect and has extended to the younger
generations. He demonstrates his awareness of this vast issue through the theory of kairos
and the urgency of this issue.

Although Richtel implores the negative effects of the obsessive use of technology
in today's society; through the stasis theory he understands presenting to a large audience
there is both the negatives and the positives regarding technology. Mr. Campbell serves
as a prime example for one who has centered his life on technology and goes through
withdrawal until he can pick up his next device. However, 'technology use can benefit
the brain is some ways' imaging studies show the brains of internet users become more
efficient at finding information'. Although this may counter argue Richtel's
argument, he explains that technology is like anything in life and must be used in
moderation; or else this will result in excessive consumption and leads to an addiction.
Richtel states that the debate will continue until concrete evidence is discovered to
determine whether technology is helping or harming the human brain. He advises many
to work on having restraint against constantly having the need or desire to check the
Internet, email, or social media. Steven Yantis, a brain sciences professor at Johns
Hopkins University explains that it is still too early to determine if the changes in the
brain are a result from technology. Mr. Campbell and like many others, is far past the
point of moderation. He simply cannot get enough. Richtel conveys through the stasis
theory that the usage of technology has its negative and positive effects when all used in
moderation.

Multitasking has become a norm among the individual's in today's society.
Richtel explains the issue of multitasking through the stasis theory and the complex life
of Mr. Campbell. Mr. Campbell is seen daily in front of large and small screens and can
barely handle the loss of Internet connection on his 22-second train ride. People today are
under the belief they are excellent at multitasking and it makes their lives easier and more
successful. However when put to the test, multitaskers do not perform as well as the non-
multitaskers do. In a study conducted by Eyal Ophir, a researcher from Stanford
University, he explains that, 'the multitaskers took longer than non-multitaskers to switch
among tasks' and were shown to be less efficient at juggling problems'. As a result
multitasking does not serve to make life easier but rather is a distraction and lack of
engagement. This eventually will take a toll on many relationships and families. Richtel
explains, 'The kind of disconnection Mr. Campbell experiences is not an entirely new
problem' in the earlier eras, people can become so lost in work' that they fail to pay
attention to family'. Richtel conveys that there a many negative affects surrounding
technology but the large disconnect that is coming between families is one of the largest
issues. As for the Campbell's there is no such thing as family vacations anymore due to
Mr. Campbell's obsession and need to be in the know 24/7.

Throughout the article 'Hooked on Technology, and Paying a Price', Richtel
conveys the obsession and misuse of technology through the kairos and stasis theory. He
demonstrates the negative effects of technology and when someone similar to Kord
Campbell abuses the abundance of technology; it causes a lack of focus in all areas of his
life. Families no longer spend quality time with one another because everyone is plugged
in to their own little world of technology. Today's generation of children are lacking
social interaction and their electronics may cause problems with brain development.
Although there is still being research done on whether or not technology is the reason for
a change in brain material, the negative effects of technology will continue to expand to
new generations and the problem will never cease unless there is change.

