Technology, whether the greater portion of humanity approves of it or not, has become a
central part of society, and of all human life, in the recent few years. It has infiltrated many
sectors of the average human's daily life. Because of this, many are worried about the possible
negative consequences that the overuse of technology can cause. One of these people is Matt
Richtel. In the form of an article, he writes his opinion on the growing use of technology, the
addiction many people have for it, and the serious repercussions, both good and bad, they may
face. Because Richtel uses the techniques of kairos and stasis theory to acknowledge both the
good and bad practices of using various forms of technology, even while focusing on the
negative consequences, he creates a very convincing argument in which he states that although
technology is useful, it can be harmful in too much excess.

Exercising the convention of timeliness in regards to kairos, Richtel effectively convinces
the reader or audience that not only is the topic of technology usage important, it is also
imperative for the public to be knowledgeable about the negative repercussions they may
experience. Every year, more and more people gain access to computers and other technological
devices, such as iPads, as they are now seen as a necessity for nearly any type of schooling or
job. They are also constantly used for leisure if one enjoys browsing the Internet or playing video
games on the different consoles available. However, Richtel's argument against the usage of
technology comes at a very important time when a large population is spending too much time
on their devices. Richtel argues that if one uses a computer or other electronic device constantly,
their brain can be rewritten or changed. He writes, 'Scientists say juggling e-mail, phone calls,
and other incoming information can change how people think and behave'.
Although this may not seem to cause a drastic change to most readers, it is something that very
few people realize or acknowledge. This new realization helps to convince readers of the
truthfulness and timeliness of Richtel's argument.

Not only are people's brains being changed, some people, such as the example of Korn
Campbell that Richtel provides, are becoming addicted to their electronics. Richtel includes
statements from scientists about the addicting quality of technology to prove his point:
'Researchers compare the lure of digital stimulation less to that of drugs and alcohol than to food
and sex, which are essential but counterproductive in excess'. Not only does Richtel
include evidence stated by scientists that prove his argument, he also contains accounts from
Campbell's family members, which help to prove that the problem of technology usage is an
immediate one. Richtel writes that Campbell's daughter has jokingly stated that it seems as if her
father cares more about his technology than his actual family. This inclusion of facts and
statements from both scientists and family members helps to convince the reader that what
Richtel is arguing is an important problem that needs to be fixed instantaneously, which helps to
make his case successful.

Richtel makes his argument effective by utilizing both kairos and stasis theory in order to
be aware of his audience and their possible counter arguments. Richtel's article originates from
the popular newspaper The New York Times. It is found online under the technology section.
Therefore, Richtel knew that his main audience would be comprised of people who are either
technology enthusiasts or use work with them as a main part of their job, most likely in a science
field. Although his main argument is against the excess practicing of technology, he also makes
sure to include facts and examples about how technology is actually beneficial to appease this
audience in order to make his argument effective to them too. One way he does this is through
the example of Campbell's wife. Even though she wishes that her husband spent less time on his
various technological devices, she understands that it is a huge part of his life. She says,
'Technology is a fabric of who he [Campbell] is' If I hated technology, I'd be hating him'
too'. Another way he acknowledges the opposing argument is by including research
by scientists about habits picked up by technology users that can help them in their day-to-day
lives. He claims that, 'imaging studies show the brains of Internet users become more efficient at
finding information'. Not only can using technology help the brain, it can also improve the
overall lives of the population: '[Technologies] have transformed life. They let people escape
their cubicles and work anywhere'. Therefore, Richtel proves that technology and
computers can advance society, but continuously warns the readers that abusing it can have
serious consequences. His claim is persuasive because he makes the audience think about how
their technology is affecting their life, especially their family and social life, and how they
should begin to think about changing these habits if they are too dependent on technology.

The 4 stases of conjecture, definition, quality, and policy that Richtel employs assist him
when convincing readers that his argument is correct. When considering conjecture, Richtel
clearly states that yes, the problem of computer and technology usage is a serious one that we
must take seriously. No one can deny that the consumption of computers and technology by the
mass public keeps rising at an incredible rate. This goes along with the definition of the
addictiveness of technology. In the case of Campbell, according to Richtel, he was using, 'two
computer screens alive with e-mail, instant messages, online chats, a Web browser, and the
computer code he was writing'. Due to the technological focus of Campbell's work and
job, he is an extreme example of computer ownership and usage. However, this instance can be
similar for many in the work force who operate on computers. In terms of quality, the example of
Campbell proves that technology is both addicting and necessary. His family teases him about
his love for computers, but it is his job to work with them. As Richtel says, 'he[Campbell] craves
the stimulation he gets from his electronic gadgets'. Campbell is dependent on technology,
but is still able to have a family and a life outside of computers. When policies become relevant
is only when one is obsessed with technology, and cannot sustain a life outside of it. However,
Richtel does not necessarily give a solution to this rising problem of computer usage, he only
states that there is a problem.

Richtel makes a convincing and successful argument about the massive impact
technology has on society by using rhetorical techniques of kairos and stasis theory. In relation to
kairos, Richtel times his argument extremely well. It is the age of technology and has been for
the past few years. Richtel's article was posted in 2010, but the overuse of technology continues
to this day, which makes his argument important even after 4 years. Richtel also forms his
argument while keeping his target audience, mainly consisting of workers or those interested in
the technology field, in mind. To appease these readers, he also uses kairos and stasis theory
when acknowledging the positive things about technology, and how they are helping to improve
brain functionality and living situations. Richtel's final utilization of stasis theory comes in the
form of questions about conjecture, definition, quality, and policy. He says that the trend of
technology is still rising and that people, especially those that work with computers, or have an
excess of technology, may become addicted to it. Overall, by utilizing kairos and stasis theory,
Richtel creates a highly effective argument that states that technology is addicting and humanity
is becoming too dependent on it.

