Joel Salatin makes an argument attempting to change how people view food on a
daily basis. In 'Declare Your Independence,' Salatin takes a closer look at how the food
industry needs to be changed and why. He uses rhetoric in an effective way to help
persuade the audience to take action against the ineffective and disturbing manufacturing.
Salatin's success at convincing the audience to consider his viewpoint is evident through
his rhetorical approach.

The use of an inductive argument allows for Salatin's argument to become more
effective and meaningful. He begins presenting his argument on a more specific scale
before becoming more general. He explains why people need to learn to opt-out and stray
from industrialization. By presenting this as the main argument, he produces a more
direct approach to the topic. Once the audience is clear on the argument, he can proceed
to the reasoning behind his argument on a more general level.

The reasoning Salatin uses supports his inductive argument. Not only does he
employ dialectical reasoning, he also demonstrates his use of rhetorical reasoning.
Dialectical reasoning occurs when he proposes that not all foods are healthy just because
they follow federal standards. He effectively compares today's food industry today to the
past and the changing nature of the healthiness of the food. Salatin uses opinions from
credited sources to help support his overall argument. He also uses rhetorical reasoning to
present common misconceptions. People tend to think that food today is healthier just
because of the new technological advancements instead of looking at what goes into
making the food they eat. It is more common for people to believe the government than it
is for them to question what they have been told and think for themselves. Combining
both reasoning techniques results in a more complete argument. By presenting his views
from different standpoints, it is easier for the audience to be able to agree with Salatin.

Salatin's presentation of ethos strengthens his argument by allowing him to make
a greater impression on the audience. He draws on his situated ethos by using his
background to his advantage. Being a farmer allows Salatin to make references that are
more reliable because the source, Salatin himself, has previous applicable knowledge.
Because his opinion is more relevant and educated, the audience is able to relate and
therefore trust him more. He references his experience in a respectful way by being very
modest in his approach with the topic. Although he shows a sense of urgency, he also
refrains from offending the audience. He also establishes his invented ethos by choosing
a topic that shows great importance today. Instead of simply telling people to change
their lives completely, he promotes making little changes that could have a longer impact.
The way in which Salatin utilizes his ethos increases not only his credibility but also his
trustworthiness. The argument will be more effective once the audience is able to believe
the rhetor and see where the argument itself is coming from.

The audience believes an argument when it recognizes with their emotions. A
person's emotions drive their decisions and have a large impact on how they react to
certain situations. Salatin specifically utilizes people's compassion and desire to help
others by using specific case examples. Many people feel deeply when it comes to
animals and by discussing the harshness of their situation, people are able to identify with
the reality presented before them. The shock value is increased when Salatin goes into
great detail in an essay where something would not usually be seen. He tries to force
people to look more closely into what they are eating and how it is produced. Many
people choose not to acknowledge a cruel reality until it affects them personally or its
shoved in their face. Salatin's abruptness may create opposition but helps create a more
effective message. People are compelled to face the issues when it is brought to a more
personal scale by affecting their emotions. By using pathos as a rhetorical device, Salatin
is able to effectively portray his message without losing his ethos.

Using enargeia in his argument allows Salatin to make the issue more personal.
Employing tactics that make the issue come alive helps convince the audience of
Salatin's argument. He uses many examples and references that contain great detail to
help show the true nature of the food industry. People should care about the issues at
hand because it affects not only how they live today, but also defines the future. He
argues for people to really take time to think about what they are putting in their body.
Salatin wants people to defy the government and learn for themselves the truth about
what is going on with the food they eat. It is not only affecting the animals and the
industry itself, but it also affects the health of each individual who chooses to follow suit.
People are not caring enough about the long-term health effects and the ingredients that
go into their food. Many just sit back while the government dictates what is safe and
unsafe instead of questioning decisions.

Salatin tries to play on people's emotions so that they decide to opt-out and think
for themselves. Too many people are relying on the government to make their decisions
for them instead of researching and deciding individually what is best. People are too
caught up in what doesn't affect them instead of realizing what really matters: their
health. Salatin uses pathos to try and get people to use their emotions and realize what
they are doing is detrimental to their body. He urges people to opt-out and understand the
processes of how their food is made and what the benefits are. Just because the cost is
low does not mean that it is also healthy. He tells people about local farmers whose
businesses need the profit to make people realize that the better and safer choice might be
just around the corner.

Joel Salatin's argument influences people to look more closely at what they are
using as a source of energy. People are not paying attention to what is happening with
their food and are ignoring what is most important in life. Putting health on the
backburner only creates the problems that many are trying to avoid. Instead of looking at
food as an industry, Salatin urges people to identify it as a journey. When you look at
food in a new way and really take time to consider everything going into your body, it is
easier to create a healthy lifestyle. Just because the government sets regulations and
declares that a certain food is healthy does not always mean that it is. Salatin engages
with the audience to help them understand that thinking for himself/herself is how to
really recognize what opting-out means. Through a rhetorically effective argument,
Salatin identifies with the audience and convinces them to take his viewpoint into
consideration.
