In The Pleasures of Eating, Wendell Berry argues the importance of 'responsible
eating'. In other terms, Berry finds it extremely important to not only know where your
food comes from, but also the steps taken to prepare or preserve it. Berry's knowledge
on the subject questions the actual nutritional value of precooked and processed foods.
He also sheds light on the benefits of eating clean and naturally prepared foods.
Throughout his argument, Berry explains the ease to which one can be educated about
their own food, as well as the steps that can be taken to control the relationship between
the consumer and their food. Along with the use of Logos, Ethos, and Pathos, Berry
makes a successful and convincing argument about our food, how it is prepared, and the
power we have to control it.

Berry's use of Logos throughout his essay reinforces the good reasoning behind
the claims within his argument. This begins with his use of deductive reasoning. He
introduces the subject of his essay by using broad topics and statements, which serves as
a debriefing on the subject, making his topic seem more reasonable and easy to
understand or follow. By stating that 'eating is an agricultural act' (124), Berry
introduces the overall subject of his argument while explaining almost nothing. He then
moves toward the specifics of this statement, taking into account the smaller details and
'politics' of the freedom we really have when it comes to choosing the foods we eat
every day.

In addition to deductive reasoning, Berry uses both dialectical and rhetorical
reasoning to make his argument more convincing and appealing to the reader. The
mixture of these two types of reasoning creates an argument that is both trustworthy and
widely accepted by people today. Dialectically, Berry takes common words used by
people who may not be fully aware of the food they eat and where it comes from. Berry
explains, '' they do not think of themselves as participants in agriculture. They think of
themselves as 'consumers'' and they ignore certain critical questions about the quality
and cost of the food they are sold' (124). Berry uses the commonly used term
'consumer' to show that most people really do not know, or even care about the specifics
when it comes to the food they consume. Similarly, Berry utilizes rhetorical reasoning to
highlight the common, everyday acts that these consumers can take to become more
involved and aware when it comes to food. In his list of actions, Berry includes that we
should 'participate in food production', 'prepare [our] own food', and 'learn as much as
[we] can' (127) about our food. These seemingly simple tasks are not foreign to our
culture and describe human acts that have been taking place for many years. These tasks
also deal with the human beliefs that we should have the power to know what the
production and content of our food entails. Collectively, these two types of reasoning
work together throughout Berry's essay to contribute to the overall success of the
argument.

Berry also utilizes a strong sense of ethos within his argument. He uses situated
Ethos primarily to establish his presence and reputation among the community of his
audience. Throughout the essay, Berry draws on an old fashioned and somewhat
religious standpoint in order to allow his readers to make their impression on his work
and argument. He explains, 'I like to eat vegetables and fruits that I know have lived
happily and healthily in good soil, not the products of the huge, bechemicaled factory-
fields that I have seen' ' (128). In stating these specificities, Berry gives his own
personal ethical standpoint on food production, which allows the reader to form beliefs
and thoughts about the overall argument. Berry even goes beyond the traditional ways of
ethical nature to describe that the way of truly eating pleasurably: 'In this pleasure we
experience and celebrate our dependence and our gratitude, for we are living from
mystery, from creatures we did not make and powers we cannot comprehend' (128). In
making this profound and thought-provoking statement, Berry defines his own character,
allowing the reader to then decide their own thoughts pertaining to Berry himself and in
turn, his argument.

Throughout the essay, Berry paints a picture of his character through both situated
and invented ethos. He presents these elements rhetorically to allow the reader to make
sense of his argument in their own way. Berry is an environmental activist, critic, and
farmer in addition to being an author, and he uses these characteristics to shape the nature
of his argument, namely pertaining to the 'politics, esthetics, and ethics of food' (128).
Berry takes into account his own activist and farmer motives, explaining that 'we have
neglected to understand that we cannot be free if our food and its sources are controlled
by someone else' One reason to eat responsibly is to live free' (125). This statement
exemplifies how Berry makes bold moves in order to create a definite and strong
character through ethos that readers can respond to.

The emotions of the reader are very important when considering the claims within
this essay. Throughout his argument, Berry successfully responds to these feelings,
making his argument more personal and intricate. Berry draws on the sense of anxiety
that his audience may have in terms of changing the way they see food. He offers a
liberating solution, explaining, 'The knowledge of the good health of the garden relieves
and frees and comforts the eater. The same goes for eating meat' (128). Berry responds
to the expected uncertainty of the reader by giving a comforting alternative to this
thinking. Berry also expects some anger or disappointment of his audience. He brings up
many points about the food industry that his readers may not know, which could make
them feel these emotions. He makes a successful and educating response by giving the
reader a list of ways to become more involved. Number five tells the reader to 'Learn, in
self-defense, as much as you can of the economy and technology of industrial food
production' (127). Here, Berry not only responds to the emotions of the reader, but gives
a challenging alternative to the situation as well. Overall, Berry's use of pathos
throughout the essay strengthens his argument through the knowledge and response to the
emotions of his audience.

Berry uses Logos, Ethos, and Pathos throughout his argument not only to
strengthen it on a rhetorical level, but to connect with his readers as well. The use of
these gives the reader insight into Berry's character as both a person and an author. They
also allow Berry to look into the thoughts and concerns of the reader and respond to
them, creating a well-developed, creative, and overall successful argument.
