In the essay 'Hooked on Technology, and Paying a Price', Matt Richtel examines the
effects technology has on work and family life. This is a prevalent issue in today's society due to
the rising number of people who rely on technology and multitasking to preform simple every-
day activities. Ten years ago, this topic would not have gotten much attention because people
didn't use computers, cell-phones, tablets, etc. as much as they do in today's fast paced society.
It is a social norm to be connected to the online world at all times throughout the day and night.
Richtel makes his argument successful by acknowledging the fact that this is a current and
relevant topic all over the world through his use of kairos and by showing the audience how
technology is negatively affecting how people communicate with one another and preform
straightforward activities through his use of stasis.

Richtel begins his essay by informing the audience of how urgent this issue truly is. He
provides a true story of a man named Kord Campbell who started up a successful internet
business. Campbell, just like most people in today's society, uses his computer to communicate
with the outside world. He participates in online chat groups, messaging, and emails, which are
all done through the computer screen. One day, he received an email that would dramatically
change his life; however, he failed to notice the email for a total of twelve days. This important
email explained that 'a big company wanted to buy his Internet start-up'. He
overlooked this extremely significant email because of the multitude of other online activities he
was taking part in. This example proves just how pressing the issue of technology and multi-
tasking really is. If someone as successful as Kord Campbell can get lost in all of the available
technology, then other people must be going through similar situations.

Knowing that his audience may not thoroughly understand the importance of the previous
email example, Richtel then goes on to provide concrete examples as to how being 'hooked on
technology' truly affects life at home and in the workplace. He even includes a quotation by
Kord Campbell's wife Brenda. She explains how sometimes her husband isn't fully involved
and 'can no longer be fully in the moment'. Not only does he go on to describe the
lifestyle of Kord Campbell, but Richtel also includes scientific evidence and research behind
multitasking. He states that 'Scientists say juggling e-mail, phone call and other incoming
information can change how people think and behave'. This is another way Richtel
is showing his audience how urgent and relevant this topic is. By using Kairos to press this issue
of urgency, Richtel is strengthening his overall argument. He is also showing his readers that
other people besides himself are examining the affects technology has on the human brain.
When humans read information that is scientifically proven, we naturally tend to trust those facts
more than information that is presented to us by an author who most people are unfamiliar with.
The research included in this essay also provides more credibility to his argument. He explains
that 'while many people say multitasking makes them more productive, research shows
otherwise. Heavy multitaskers actually have more trouble focusing and shutting out irrelevant
information, scientists say, and they experience more stress.'. Although all of the
scientific information helps provide credibility to Richtel's argument, including the name and the
workplace of those specific scientists would strengthen his argument even more. The audience
has no idea whether or not that information is reliable, and they just have to trust the authors
claim. He eventually includes the name of Nora Volkow, who is 'the director of the National
Institute of Drug Abuse and one of the world's leading brain scientist', but she is not recognized
as the scientist who makes the claims in the fifth through seventh paragraphs. I do
not necessarily think this weakens the authors argument; however, if he had included the names
of the scientists within the first couple paragraphs, it would have solidified his message for the
readers.

Not only does Richtel explain to the audience that this issue is timely and urgent through
modern day examples, specific evidence, and scientific research, but he also acknowledges and is
aware of the opposing arguments and disagreements. The information being provided is used to
prove those arguments of dispute wrong. The first time he mentions that people may have
different beliefs towards multitasking is on page 88. He says that 'many people say multitasking
makes them more productive'. Then, however, he immediately provides scientific
information to prove this statement wrong. He also goes on to recognize the fact that technology
can benefit the brain in some ways. Although he touches base on the fact that technology has
been good in the past, his major argument is definitely that overuse of technology has negative
effects on humans, even though he never explicitly comes out and says that. The essay does not
state that all technology is bad, and people should eliminate any type of technology from their
lives. Richtel simply states evidence that supports his opinion that being attached and addicted
to technology can cause negative effects on humans in order to prove his point.

By providing this extensive example of the Campbell family, Richtel is also implying or
hinting to the audience that their families could potentially become as addicted to staying
connected to the online world as the Campbell family. Many people could potentially see this
family as an extreme case, but by including information and examples all throughout the lives of
the members in the Campbell family, Richtel is explaining that this is not only possible, but also
more common than the readers had previously contemplated. This strengthens the argument
because it makes the readers relate the situation the Campbell family is going through to their
own lives. It makes them ask questions such as, 'Is this going to happen to my family?', 'Am I
as addicted to my phone and computer as Mr. Campbell?', 'Are my kids going to become so
dependent to their phones?'.

Overall, Richtel uses scientific research, specific modern day examples, opposing
arguments, and potential indicators -- which are all concepts of kairos and stasis -- that
strengthen his overall argument. By using these two rhetorical devices, he is convincing his
audience that being 'hooked on technology' and multitasking does have a negative effect on the
brain. The sense of urgency and timeliness, or the rhetorical device of kairos, provides the most
strength to the idea of the overall essay. If this was not a relevant and popular theme throughout
today's society, then people would not take into consideration what Richtel has to say. By
showing his audience that even an average family has the possibility to become addicted to
technology, Richtel is expressing how critical this topic truly is.

