In this article, Richtel makes it apparent that the advance in technological devices
has created a giant wave of distraction. This being said, there are a few areas than can
be closely examined when speaking of the outbreak of electronic devices. The current
issue is not entirely a problem, but it is something that is causing people to operate
differently in everyday life. People are beginning to lack pure intelligence and they are
relying on the tools of electronic devices.

In Richels article, he explains the story of a man who has transformed his life due
to technology. There are many different viewpoints in todays world. Alot of the older
generations believe it is out of the educational norm to rely on such a device that does
your research for you to a certain extent. It has been said that technology is taking over
peoples lives, and it is causing people to become distracted, but the whole point of the
resources that exist, were to assist people, and make the tasks in everyday life much
easier for people to accomplish.

An argument could be made that searching for information electronically can take
away from the learning experience. This can be said, because people do not have to
search for information on their own, nor do they have to find the resources needed to
present this information. it has been made a lot easier to find this information and
transport it to another document without having to retain the information and put it in
your own words. On the contrary, this simplification has made it a lot easier for people
to present factual backup in their work. The biggest benefit of this process, is that it can
search a larger base of information in an instant. If you are searching for something in
the library, or hardcover books it will take a longer period of time, and it will not allow
you to search as large of a database.

From a non educational standpoint, it may be distracting to have so many
electronic opportunities for leisure. With the current development of social networks in
the last few decades, it has become more opportune for people to be distracted, and
lose track of priorities and important obligations. In this day and age, it is almost an
absolute necessity to have this technology. So many medical advances have taken
place due to the simplifications of modern technology. As stated in this article,
technology is a powerful thing. It could possibly be described as a technological
epidemic. Not only has the research efficiency increased, but the efficiency of peoples
brains have increased as well. It is scientifically proven that users of some video games
have higher visual acuity. According to the article, a man by the name of Adam
Gazzaley stated that the nonstop interactivity is one of the greatest shifts ever in the
human environment.

The evolution of technology has made it so much easier to communicate ideas,
and personal endeavors. The world of online dating, social networks, and even any form
of interactive websites have simplified the process of relationship building, and
maintaining contact with others who may live far away or not able to communicate for a
given reason. If you are evaluating the impact of social networks on human activity each
day, you may observe that information travels extremely fast, and it impacts the events
in everyday life.

The use of the internet has increased the ability of businesses to advertise, and
in turn, that increases the revenue earned by companies. The sales offered, and the
promotional activities offered can quickly benefit a business. Not only has the internet
become a major contributor to business and everyday life, but the world of software has
been a primary contributor to the success of large companies and corporations. I
believe businesses would not thrive on the large scale that they do if they were not able
to have computers to run the financial and other computable functions in the specific job
field that is being ran. In the grand scheme of things, all of these issues that have
supposedly come about seem to be outweighed and become quite miniscule compared
to the benefits of modern technology in modern culture. To be able to financially track
every transaction to the exact cent hundreds and even thousands of times a day, takes
a large weight off of employers shoulders. If these tools were not currently available, a
business would not be able to successfully thrive as they do today. Not only does this
help from a financial standpoint, but job planning and other ongoing functions can be
calculated and stored for future use.

As each generation gets older and older, they become more adapted to the
technological advances, and become more involved in the technology world as well. At
this rate, the world will always continue to be technologically inclined. The impact of
technology has become so great, they the world has evolved into something that could
not be reversed. People have come to be addicted to the things that technology brings
to the table. It should not ever be looked down upon for a second, because without the
things technology brings the world would struggle. We will never know what the world
would be like if we never had technology, but one thing is for certain it would be very
behind in many aspects.

As with anything else, any simplifications to any daily functions or tasks will ease
daily life. That being said, the impact of technology on this earth simply can not be
described or explained in any simple way.

