'Hooked on Technology, and Paying a Price' by Matt Richtel discusses
technology's huge presence in our generation. He discusses how technology has changed
the way we think and process information. He explains how technology impacts us both
positively in how we search for information, but negatively in our ability to be efficient in
our work. Richtel uses real life examples in order to show how we develop when
exposed to technology for large amounts of time. Using Kairos and Stasis theory, we are
able to successfully analyze each aspect of his effective argument; leading us to the
conclusion that technology that is making the human brain unnecessary and inefficient,
due to our newfound inability to socialize and be an active member in society.

In Richtel's essay, he breaks down his argument into different themes in order to
spread out his arguments and relate his points to random subjects. Richtel includes the
effects that technology has on our multitasking ability, the children of our generation, and
the overall affect it has on our brain. By having such a wide variety of different topics,
Richtel is able to create more commonalities and include a wider variety of audiences to
discuss and debate this growing issue. Many people consider technology to be this very
necessary and revolutionary thing that improves our lives. In some cases people are
correct however, Richtel gives us a different way to look at what technology really is and
how it truly affects us.

Richtel's argument is very relevant in today's society, this is because almost
every individual comes across multiple forms of technology (cell phones, TV's, laptops,
etc.) every day. Technology is advancing every day and at a rapid rate with both positive
and negative effects on our society. Technology allows us to process and do many tasks
without manpower, and gather information. The downfall of this ability is that it is
slowly replacing the need for humans in the workplace. Technology also gives us the
ability to interact with people without being around them, the negative of this is that we
are becoming dissocialized and losing our ability to interact in society. This is a huge
issue right now in the United States as well as in other countries. Many people are unable
to step away from the computer or their phone and live in the present. Richtel uses Mr.
Campbell to represent many people our society. Mr. Campbell is a middle class man
who has become so wrapped up in technology he hardly socializes with his own family.
His wife Brenda explains it as, 'he can no longer be in the moment' (Richtel 88).
Richtel, using his wife, explains the seriousness of this issue while also expressing the
urgency that something needs to be done so that Campbell can start living in the
'moment' again. We need to learn to control our use of technology, because as Richtel's
example shows us, if we use technology too much eventually we will lose ourselves in it.

Through the use of real life examples, Richtel is able to relate this issue to many
personas all over the world. Richtel has a great awareness for this topic as a whole; he
has spent many years interviewing everyday people. Richtel also met with many
different specialists in order to put together a coherent argument about all the different
aspects of technology and its effect on our society. Richtel uses his firsthand experience
with technology in order to relate himself to the audience. Richtel explains to his
audience how even he struggles with the overbearing amount of technology. Richtel
helps develop a relationship with the reader in order to create an idea that is applicable to
everyone. He shows us that all people, due to technology's huge presence in our society,
are in some way vulnerable to technology; we all are tempted and expected to partake in
this growing phenomenon. By creating this common place, Richtel is able to get a
clearer understanding of Richtel's argument, that technology is addicting and it is
affecting our cultural in more ways than we realize.

Richtel sets up his argument so that he provides the opposing views followed by
the factual information; by doing this we are able to see the conceptual ideas versus the
reality. Richtel includes this counter argument, 'Technology can benefit the brain'
Internet users become more efficient at finding information' [Technology] shrinks
distances and handle countless mundane tasks, freeing up time for more exciting
pursuits' (Richtel 89). Richtel follows this up by including scientific evidence showing
that although technology has one or two benefits, the downfalls of it are more severe.
Richtel explains that technology is becoming addictive and preventing us from being
active in society; Richtel's research shows us that computers and phones have led to
increase of multitasking; this has led to a destruction of our attention spans and has
fractured our way of thinking.

Richtel breaks his argument up into different sections in order to subliminally
give questions to the audience that deal with different aspects of their lives. Richtel
doesn't ask any flat out questions, instead he relates the argument back to the everyday
individual, forcing them to reevaluate and think about their own lives. Richtel challenges
the family values that many people in the world has, he subliminally includes messages
about technology verses family; through showing how technology can interfere and
distract someone from interacting with their family. Richtel engages the audience to
think about their personal values, he challenges them to determine what is more
important to them: having the best technology and using it frequently, or being social and
engaging with other persons. Without realizing it Richtel has got us thinking what we do
if we were in Mr. Campbell's shoes.

Technology is reshaping the way we go about living our lives, this included both
positive and negative aspects. Many people consider technology as a medium to get
things done at a more efficient rate; Richtel disproves this theory by showing how
technology can actually prevent us from being efficient. Richtel agrees that technology
has beneficial aspects but he believes that in the long run the quality of the technology
isn't as important as being able to partake in society. Through Richtel's setup we are able
to get this idea very clearly; he is able to provide both sides to the argument and analyze
each. Although it is never said, Richtel implies that we all need to reevaluate our lives
and take a step back from the computer, because there is much more out there.

