In his 'Advice to Graduates' George Saunders makes his argument for kindness because
this is the right time and place to make this argument. His argument is made to a graduating
class of young people ready to go out and make a life for themselves. His speech is made at
Syracuse University for the class of 2013. Saunders takes advantage of this venue and by
choosing to make his argument as a graduation speech, I feel that Saunders made the right
choices in time, place and audience. Because of recent stories in the news of bullying, domestic
abuse and workplace harassment, and using the fact that they are students set to go into the
world, Saunders wants tell them his heartfelt wish for them to become kinder. Saunders picks
up on the current conversations that are being talked about, and have been taught about their
whole lives, such as bullying, and harassment. He begins his talk with an explicit question:
'What do I regret?'. He then compares events in his life that he doesn't regret with what he
truly regrets. He is speaking to young adults who are about to graduate college with hopes to
succeed in life. They all have questions if they can succeed, and about their future. He tells
them that they can succeed and still be kind at the same time. He makes it an effective
argument by backing it up with his personal experiences. He tell the story of Ellen; a classmate
of his that the other students made fun of, and he regrets not standing up for. Saunders uses
his statement "Those moments when another human being was there, in front of me,
suffering, and I responded . . . sensibly. Reservedly. Mildly" to tell how he had
responded to Ellen being bullied. This part reminded of one day when I was in the
seventh grade and had to ride the city bus to school; and a group of kids were trying to
bully a girl out of her seat, just so one of them could sit down. I stood up for her and
ended up getting jumped by five guys once we got off the bus. I do not regret that at all
and would do it again in a second. There are moments in life where you do something
truly right and it sticks with you for the rest of your life. He goes on to tell of other
situations that one would think he would regret but does not, because kindness was not part of
that experience. So, by using these examples, he is able to tells us of how he has regret for not
being kinder earlier in life, and does not want these graduates to have this same feeling of
regret. Not only does bullying happen in school, it also happens in the work place. Saunders
wants his audience to know that from them being kind it can make the others around them
better.

Saunders tell us that kindness is something that we have to learn; and gradually over
time we become kinder and a better person. In his awareness of disagreement Saunders tells
us that we are not born with kindness, and he uses this statement 'Each of us is born with a
series of built-in confusions that are probably somehow Darwinian'. This makes the
argument that young people do not have kindness in them, but has to learn it. This is true in
some cases; the internet is full of videos of young children that say rude or mean things to their
parents or other people. But is that really unkind? As a young child you do not know any better;
you have to be taught what is right and wrong. We learn from our parent and other grown-ups
to know what love and kindness is. I have had friends that had rough childhoods and came from
abusive parents; and when I first met them they were not very kind and quite mean. I did not
really like them, but something told me that they needed a friend and with time, showing them
kindness and being there for them as a good friend; they became a better person. I did not
really like them, but something told me that they needed a friend and with time, showing them
kindness and being there for them as a good friend; they became a better person. Using
conjecture in his speech Saunders is showing that kindness already exist in all of us. He
describes kindness as something that can change, by saying that as we get older we get kinder
and more loving. "One thing in our favor: some of this 'becoming kinder' happens
naturally, with age. It might be a simple matter of attrition: as we get older, we come to
see how useless it is to be selfish ' how illogical, really".

In his speech, Saunders gives a sense of urgency to the argument by telling them to
'Hurry up. Speed it along.' and 'Start right now'. I agree with this that statement and feel
that Saunders would like them to be aware that if they start being kinder now, then having
regret later in life would be less likely. He goes on to argue that it is a "sickness" to not be kind,
that the only cure is being good and proactive. He also tell us that we can still do all the things
we want in life and still be kind in the process. This is true; by just by taking a few seconds each
day and saying "Thank you", "good job" or "please" can make all the difference in someone's
day. I know that when one of my managers or the director of my department shows
appreciation for the hard work I have been doing, I feel a lot better after doing it. This shows his
awareness of his audience by talking about them being young and about to enter a new phase
of their lives, where they will be anxious to find out if they can have success in what they have
working so hard to achieve. Saunders makes his point and says this is a good thing; if you are
going to be kinder in the process. He defines Kindness by talking about how it is hard with the
statements He says that kindness is good and happens naturally with age, and that kindness is
love. I like his statement "as you get older, your self will diminish and you will grow in
love. YOU will gradually be replaced by LOVE." I have seen this in my father he
seemed so much kinder in his older years, less harsh and rude. He always knew how to
push my buttons to make me mad, or upset growing up. Then in his last few years he
was a lot kinder and more prone to say nice things, give good advice, and most of all give
good hugs. Saunders describes kindness as complex, developing over time and having
different parts. Kindness in its self; is good, and is part of your soul and with a little help it will
show itself and make you a better person.

According to this speech we need to start being kinder sooner than later to avoid regret
later in life. 'Start right now' and to 'be our best selves.' He also says that 'There's a
confusion in each of us, a sickness, really: selfishness. But there's also a cure. So be a good and
proactive and even somewhat desperate patient on your own behalf ' seek out the most
efficacious anti-selfishness medicines, energetically, for the rest of your life.' I believe
Saunders has made a great argument for kindness. Kindness is something that our society is in
desperate need for and he does a great job at making his point.

