Matt Richtel is a very thoughtful and concise writer. He uses multiple angles
and perspectives to cultivate a very thorough and modern essay that analyses his
specific argument and sheds light on areas that would have been left in the shadows
had they not been brought to the attention of the readers of this essay. He utilizes
stasis and kairos theories to their upmost potential by answering some incredibly
important questions throughout the essay. Is his concern about technology even
relevant? He proves it. He shows awareness for his audience by addressing
controversial questions as well as awareness for the rhetoric in general by gleaning
on certain ideals of all sides to his argument. All this he employed through the
Kairos theory, which he most likely learned about through his education and
practice- ' probably while he was preparing to write this powerful and influential
essay. This gives us a hint at what an educated man Matt Ritchel is and shows that
he really took his time preparing to write a successful article that is informative and
leaves the reader questioning his or her own lifestyle. Ritchel also employs the stasis
theory to effectively drive his argument. He brings up controversial topics that
readers might use against him- ' and Ritchel agrees with them. Ritchel mainly focuses
on the fact that technology can be too addictive, it has rewired our brains so that we
want things instantaneously but he admits it has also transformed our lives for the
better.

Matt outlines his beliefs on the addiction to modern cell phones, computers
and televisions through the (as previously said insanely well thought out guidelines
discussed in the above paragraph) stasis and kairos theories. Is Matt's argument
solid? Well, that is, in reality, for you to decide but I am here to tell you most
ardently that yes, this argument IS solid and he does an excellent job tackling and
explaining the delicacies of his topic and argument, like a two- 'in- 'one package. He
describes unabashedly that technology takes away from important time with family
and sometimes limits healthy human interaction. Ritchel uses the example of a Mr.
Campbell who is a very successful person- ' he receives about three hundred emails a
day and he glanced over one of the most important ones of his career- ' a three
million dollar offer. He didn't notice it in his inbox until twelve days later. Mr.
Campbell also has a hard time unplugging from his devices- ' at home he rarely looks
up from his phone. He is constantly checking email, playing video games, or surfing
online. His daughter joked that he loved technology more than his family. You get
everything for free in this essay because it comes without struggle to contemplate
what Matt is sayings; he just says it- ' we all are heavily addicted to technology and it
can be detrimental for our personal relationships- ' it can also keep us from
exercising. He does not overcomplicate his ideas. He works hard develop your
knowledge on the controversy and diversity of the topic and argument he is
presenting. He also expands his audience's knowledge by offering up background
information on actual victims of the negatives and positives of his topic/argument.
This is an enlightening thing because typically an author will give you what he wants
to you think; but Ritchel gives you every angle because he, as a writer, genuinely
wants you to decide for yourself, based on all the proof and backup for all the
different possible stances to take; which stance will you take based on the
information he's given you. Because Matt has asked the reader these questions,
rhetorically and given them all the necessary information to answer, I believe his
argument is not only successful, it's extraordinarily on point with the times.

Ritchel, again, talks about his good friend, Kord Campbell's experience with
being overly occupied by mass amounts of information that technology was
streaming to him and how that affected his life. Matt's argument, if you cannot
already tell at this point, is 'hooked on technology and paying a price'. He proposes
that we, as modern day humans who all live in a world that thrives on technology,
it and simultaneously
are all helplessly hooked, enormously benefited by
disadvantaged by it as it regenerates all of our lives through the renewing of our
brains and transformation of our worldly skills.

He first and foremost talks about these benefits and issues within the realm
of business. The first example which I am pointing back to now illustrates the
carelessness we can all acquire through our addiction if we are not careful. The
beautiful and dangerous thing about technology is that it allows us to be lazy and
has enormous amounts of freedom which simultaneously making us less grateful
and more likely to complain about how much we have on our plates. Kord
Campbell's experience with an overlooked email is the perfect picture of what I just
explained above. What happened to him was that he overlooked the most important
email of his life because the mass load of information that technology was providing
him with and it caused him to be lazy and not open up every email to make sure it
wasn't of importance to him. Well, the one he missed was important, if fact, it was a
notification from another competing company that they wished to purchase the
company he had up on the market for over a million dollars. He overlooked this vital
message for not only a day' . But for twelve whole days he did not give them a
response, which, had he opened it, it would have been an immediately positive
return email, accepting the deal of a lifetime. That is the negative angle. Multitaskers
tend to be unable to block out unnecessary information from the important
information- ' this was Kord's mistake- ' he was trying to accomplish too much on a
daily basis.

The positive angle to a mass load of information is that anything you could
every possibly want to know is in this world, is merely a google search away. All the
information of the world is at your fingertips; you are constantly informed; of
anything and everything. Because of this technology has rewired our brains to take
all more efficient routes of living. Every time we notice something mundane in our
lives, someone invents something to minimize our efforts so we can spend more
time in life doing the things we love. Technology is the fabric of who we are because
our entire lives revolve around it; communication, entertainment, transportation,
information, enlightenment and so many more. It has completely and entirely
renewed the way to think and react to everything in life. Therefore, we cannot live
without it. Technology is an amazing gift that we need to take and mold into the
perfect and completely un- 'abusive tool. The fact that we get too distracted by our
phones and run into trees is the negative point Ritchel is trying to touch on. Or the
fact that we miss deal making emails. Or the fact that we get too distracted from our
families. At the end of the day, however, we could not survive our wonderfully
modern times without the beautiful gift of technology, and we wouldn't want to. We
just need to figure out an ideal balance of life and cyber space because too much of a
good thing is never a good thing.

