Matt Richtel's piece 'Hooked on Technology, and Paying a Price' creates
an argument that makes people question whether technology is a blessing or a curse. This
persuasive piece grabs the attention of readers through the use of powerful and simplistic
rhetoric. The issue of technology usage becomes more urgent with Richtel's convincing
voice and tone. People are forced to contemplate their own choices and see how
technology has impacted their lives both negatively and positively. These problems have
become increasingly relevant in today's society and help promote Richtel's pressing
voice. His persuasiveness through kairos and stasis theory allows the piece to become
valuable to the audience.

The effectiveness of Richtel's piece develops from the timeliness and
appropriateness of his issue. Technology usage has been increasing quite frequently and
creates a debate on whether or not it is actually harmful. By using current events to
support his opinion, Richtel successfully argues that technology plays too large a role on
people's lives. Even though there are benefits to the technology increase, 'the
consumption of media, as varied as e-mail and TV, has exploded'. His
topic choice shows importance among people of different age groups and cultures
because of its prevalence today.

Technology creates a sense of urgency in today's society because due to increased
dependence on electronics and devices. It creates problems with not only the individual,
but also creates tension within the dynamic of the family. In Richtel's example, Mrs.
Campbell says how ''Technology is part of the fabric of who [my husband] is'' and the
side effects on the family are evident. As addiction becomes a greater
problem, social ties are severed because 'addicts tend to compromise their social lives
(family and friends) and neglect themselves' (Turel, Serenko & Bontis 2011). The article
gains its sense of urgency from the strain that technology places on the family when a
member becomes addicted to technology. The situation gains significance that allows the
article to have a greater impact on the audience.

A rhetorical argument becomes more successful when the audience is able to
relate to the author. Richtel relates the topic to families and just people in general by
showing how it affects more than one person in the family. By making it relatable to
more than one group, he shows his awareness of his audience's emotions. He targets the
audience's sentiments by choosing an aspect of their lives that is most intimate, such as
their family. An argument is most effective when it most applicable and relatable to the
audience. Richtel's narrative about an ordinary family helps to show that anyone can
become a victim to technology. The argument becomes more understandable and
accessible and shows the audience the damaging effects of technology.

An argument's availability helps create the range of the audience. Richtel's article
originally appeared in The New York Times, one of the most widely read newspapers in
America. Using a source with such a large scope allows Richtel to reach into the homes
of those affected by technology and force them to think about not only the consequences,
but also the true impact that electronics have on their everyday lives. By choosing to
publish in a source that is accessible in both print and electronic form, the audience is
forced to reevaluate their own actions and technological use. By taking advantage of the
widespread availability and publishing of his own article, Richtel is able to use kairos to
his advantage.

Despite technology's flaws, its usefulness can be viewed as an overwhelming
positive. Richtel addresses the opposite viewpoint in his article by addressing how 'the
brains of Internet users become more efficient at finding information' and how other
technologies also extend new benefits to society. He presents the opposing
arguments before breaking them down with his own views and support. Allowing the
audience to see the other side of the presentation creates a more trusting relationship with
Richtel himself and allows the audience to believe the argument more readily.

The questioning through stasis theory establishes an effective argument
that upholds Richtel's argument. Presenting conjecture first allows the audience to see
what argumentation will be presented and that the article is valuable. By beginning the
article with the story of an affected family, readers are able to form their own opinions on
whether or not a case can be considered. In this instance, readers are asked to
acknowledge the overuse of technology and if it poses a pressing problem to the
continuation of society and life as it continues now.

The authenticity of Richtel's argument is established through the definition
question process. In his article, Richtel defines the issue by arguing how 'scientists say
juggling e-mail, phone calls and other incoming information can change how people
think and behave'. Technology causes a problem with the way people
manage time and work, generally decreasing efficiency. The argument that is made helps
to define the issue at hand and creates agreement among the audience that ultimately
gains Richtel support. Richtel uses stasis theory in this instance to receive backing for his
assertion on technology's faults.

The quality of the act can be determined through the presentation of the argument
to the audience. Even though the implication of technology might seem trivial at first to
most readers, Richtel reasons through examples and explains the seriousness of the issue
at hand. By portraying the difficulties through a family example, the audience is able to
relate and see the importance of the topic. He chooses to present the topic in this way so
that the spectators are truly able to weigh the argument and its credibility for themselves.

Richtel demonstrates policy to depict a possible solution for the prevalent issue.
Instead of explicitly stating a resolution to the problem, he allows open interpretation on
the audience's end. He presents the debate throughout the paper by implementing
valuable examples that affect the readers personally because they are relatable. By
allowing open interpretation, Richtel creates an evaluation determined by the readers
themselves instead of telling them what to do in this specific situation.

Richtel's usage of kairos and stasis theory improves his ability to write an
effective piece. The rhetorical devices help make the argument relate to the audience on a
more personal level. Readers are able to question technology and its importance on
society today. By allowing the audience to connect to the examples provided, Richtel
persuades people that a technology takeover is occurring and that actions must be taken
while it can still be done.
