The article 'Hooked on Technology and Paying a Price' by Matt Richtel is a well written
piece that talks about how technology is everywhere and currently runs most of everything in
today's world. Richtel uses the story of a man called Kord Campbell to show his audience the
pros and cons that technology offers. With his use of Kairos and Stasis theory Richtel further
employs facts about technology into this essay and make readers comprehend and be aware of
the impacts that technology has on our brains and in the way that we think.

Kairos in simple terms is the moment in time in which everything occurs. With this broad
topic about technology in our society today Richtel mentions how impactful it has been and
gives some pros that technology has brought on. He also includes cons and why it is so harmful
to not only grown-ups, but also for children to be so consumed with all of these technological
gadgets on a daily basis. Although this is a very timely topic Richtel does not clearly mention to
his audience the urgency of this topic. He more or less just mentions it, and gives facts to inform
his audience so that they are aware of how technology impacts our minds. Richtel`s article
begins with introducing Kord Campbell. Campbell missed the most important email of his life
due to all of the other distractions and his use of multitasking on his computer. It was not until 12
days later that he realized he had received that email. Richtel exclaims that 'even after
[Campbell] unplugs, he craves the stimulation he gets from his electronic gadgets. He forgets
things like dinner plans, and he has trouble focusing on his family'. Some pros that
Richtel includes about technology in his essay are that scientists believed the brain stopped
developing after childhood but, it turns out 'its neural networks continue to develop, influenced
by things like learning skills'. This shows that when computers were introduced
they made us use a different part of our brain and therefore our minds kept developing because
of all the new things people were learning to do. Another pro is that studies suggest 'Internet
users showed greater brain activity than nonusers'. The insertion of these facts
about how technology has influenced our brains, makes readers aware of the good things that
have come from technology, and by doing this Richtel comes off as more of a trusting source
because he is giving information from both sides of the spectrum and not only stating things that
are wrong with technology.

Even though Richtel gives pros about technology he also mentions a few cons. Such as a
study that was done at the University of California which says that 'people interrupted by email
reported significantly increased stress with those left to focus, [and] stress hormones have been
shown to reduce short-term memory' (CR 91). Richtel`s view about how technology impacts our
lives is clearly that he thinks its unhealthy and it takes away from people interacting with one
another in person. Richtel does not simply blurt this out in his essay, but with his use of Kairos to
explain what is occurring with technology in this moment in time, he implicates to his audience
about this timely topic. By using Campbell's life to communicate the struggle of a regular person
with his ability to not be able to unplug shows that he is trying to convince his readers of the
downside to technology and that it can be prevented and that there are more important things we
could be doing. Another con is that researchers think that the addition of digital stimulation
'prevents children from developing their brains which already struggle to set priorities'. The
article mentions that Campbell has two children and they both have their own phones and
computers and in instances when they are on a vacation or at the dinner table family time is
interrupted by the use of their gadgets.

To add on to all of this, Richtel introduces the 'myth of multitasking'. Many people
believe that multitasking is a very useful skill that helps accomplish more things in a shorter
amount of time. The incorporation of technology has made multitasking a big topic, and a talent
for a lot of people. It is controversial because many think that it is counterproductive, and does
the opposite of what it is meant to do. Multitasking includes checking email on your computer,
talking on a cellphone and trying to manage another task in order to get everything that needs to
be done quickly. Scientists have discovered that heavy multitaskers have a harder time focusing
and excluding irrelevant information. A con of multitasking, is that it causes fractured thinking
and a lack of focus and that it is 'rewiring our brains'. Unlike the use of technology,
multitasking is only mentioned in a negative light. Richtel mentions his research and what
scientist have to say about the matter but he does not include anything positive about
multitasking. Although cellphones and computers have helped drastically these past decades,
they have taken the place of interaction between human beings and has made us a less social
society. A neuroscientist at the University of California says' the nonstop interactivity is one of
the most significant shifts ever in the human environment'.

Richtel takes into account Stasis theory by showing his thoughts about multitasking and
the changes it has caused to people. He doesn't clearly state his disagreement of it but the way he
incorporates it into his essay makes it seem as if he didn't think it was a real thing and that
instead he thought it was a counterproductive activity. In order for Richtel to engage his audience
he includes various facts about technology being useful and how it is misused. Throughout his
essay Richtel engages in questions of conjecture, definition and even quality about technology.
Obviously it is something that really exists and he is making his audience consider if technology
is so important that it should take place of your family and friends. As for definition, we define
this a cultural movement of the last decade. It was not until the beginning of the 2000`s when
phones and computers began to be utilized by regular citizens and not just by business people.
Richtel evaluates this as a very important issue that should be handled. As he goes through the
daily routine of Kord Campbell he realizes how Campbell represents society as a whole. He is
constantly on his gadgets and seems to be attached to his computer and other devices. It is
mentioned how Campbell 'goes to sleep with a laptop or iPhone on his chest, and when he
wakes, he goes online'. Richtel`s stand on this topic is that although technology has
many helpful uses, there are also distractions and downsides, therefore he believes that there
should be a time and place for technology and it shouldn't get in the way of how you live your
life or interact with others.

In conclusion, this essay informs readers about a current topic in society. Although it is
timely Richtel does not provide a sense of urgency towards the topic. He mostly gives facts to his
audience to further educate them about the pros and cons of technology and multitasking. He
shows his awareness by using the life of Kord Campbell as a story to implement his evidence
about technology, and to emphasize to his audience that it is a real problem that families struggle
with. Richtel also uses Kairos and Stasis to show his audience about an occurring problem and
what his thoughts are towards it. His argument that technology is rewiring our brains is very
effective and with all of his evidence to back up his stasis he is successful at making his audience
understand his stand on the issue and comprehend why it is that we are paying a price by being
hooked on our devices and not noticing all of the other important things happening around us
every day.

