Over the past couple of decades, the Internet has experienced a drastic rise in
popularity. The advancement and creation of new technology with Internet capabilities
has changed the way we carry out the actions of our everyday lives. It may seem as
though the expansion of the Internet and its capabilities could only make things easier for
us. However, as Matt Richtel explains in 'Hooked On Technology, And Paying A
Price', the conveniences that are made possible by our tablets, smart phones, and laptops
could very well be preventing us from actually living our lives. By using both kairos and
the stasis Theory, Richtel makes a valid and persuasive argument about our obsession
with technology by using stories and statistical data on the subject derived from
university studies.

Considering the current amount of technology we incorporate into our lives daily,
Richtel's timing is most opportune, making his argument stronger and more widely
accepted by readers. 'Hooked On Technology' puts into perspective just how much we
rely on our technological devices. Richtel explains, 'Computer users at work change
windows or check e-mail or other programs nearly 37 times an hour, new research
shows'. Richtel's argument about technology reflects a relevant and still
growing part of our society. People of almost any age are included in this argument.
Today, anyone between the ages of four and ninety-four uses the Internet, which makes
Richtel's argument timely and relevant.

In addition to his timeliness, Richtel adds a sense of urgency to his argument. He
makes it clear that our excessive use of technology could indeed be threatening to us if
we don't change something about it soon. Mr. Campbell, one of the speakers in Richtel's
piece, sheds some light on the subject: ' 'It's a mixed blessing' If you're not careful,
your marriage can fall apart or your kids can be ready to play and you'll get distracted'.
Mr. Campbell explains from his own experience that work or personal hobbies that
deal with too much internet use can cause a person to fail to pay attention to their loved
ones. Richtel uses Mr. Campbell, his family, and his addiction to e-mail to relay the
sense of urgency on the subject in his argument.

By writing about this issue at all, Richtel shows great knowledge of his audience.
He realizes that most people (especially teen and college-age students) who would read
his piece would certainly be acquainted with present day technological innovations. He
targets both students and working adults in his argument through Mr. Campbell's story,
as well as research taken from multiple studies at universities like Stanford, UCLA, and
the University of Utah. Richtel included a study from the University of California, Irvine
that pertains to students and businesspeople alike, stating, 'People interrupted by e-mail
reported significantly increased stress compared with those left to focus. Stress
hormones have been shown to reduce short-term memory'. By including research
results like this, Richtel shows that he understands his audience as well as the point that
he is trying to persuade the reader to believe.

Throughout Richtel's piece, he strives to highlight the negative effects of our
growing obsession with technology in hopes of convincing the reader that they should be
aware of this issue. Most of the argument deals with stories and examples of how the
Internet can change people in a bad way. However, Richtel's argument does in face shed
some light on the possibility of a counterargument. Those who disagree with his
argument might say that the growth of technology is not necessarily a bad thing. To
answer this theory, Richtel includes an explanation from Steven Yantis, a professor at
Johns Hopkins University: ' 'The bottom line is, the brain is wired to adapt' there's no
question that rewiring all the time'. By incorporating Yantis's quote, Richtel is
opening up his argument to debate, as well as showing his awareness that there are other
arguments to be made on the subject.

Throughout his argument, Richtel poses a few questions dealing with the subject
at hand. Are we too involved with out technological devices? Why is the Internet so
important to us? Is it slowly destroying the relationships we have with our loved ones?
Richtel addresses all of these by including the personal accounts of others as they relay
stories of how their need for technology has somehow altered their life, whether it is in
work, family, or a personal situation. In doing this, Richtel directly engages with his
audience. No matter their beliefs or values, Richtel's argument draws the reader in with
the shockingly realistic accounts of others who have been affected by our growing need
for technology.

'Hooked On Technology, And Paying A Price' accurately describes the current
issues and struggles that humans face when dealing with too much exposure to
technology. His argument is interesting, clear, and straightforward, giving room for
debate along the way. Overall, Richtel uses the accounts of real people as well as
reputable research to make an exciting and successful argument.

