In Matt Richtel's article published in the New York times called, ' Hooked on
technology and paying a price', he argues that the growing use of technology and
multitasking that comes with it may be having harmful effects on our social interactions
and family life. Richtel shows the readers facts and stories about the effects that
technology can have which leads to the idea that excessive technological use may be more
harmful than beneficial. Richtel's presents his argument thoroughly and successfully to
his audience through the use of both Kairos and Stasis theory.

The argument is also made strong partially by his use of Kairos through the fact
that this is a very timely issue he is discussing. The increase in technology is something
that has been prevalent in the past few decades, so most readers can relate to the issues
that are brought up. Almost every family home has at least one computer and most family
members have a cell phone by the time they reach adolescence. Because this new modern
world that revolves around technology has become prominent only in the past few years,
the challenge of balancing the use of technology is something that many American
families are trying to adjust to. So, because of this many readers are open to Richtel's
argument because it is a relatively new aspect of their everyday lives and the lasting
effects it may have is something they may have been unaware of.

A large portion of Richtel's article revolves around the story of the Campbell
family. The Campbell family is made up of Mr. and Mrs. Campbell and their two children
Connor and Lily. Lily and Connor each have their own electronic devices. Connor is
consumed with his iPhone, laptop, and video games; His excessive use of electronics has
even affected his schoolwork. He says that it is hard for him to focus on homework or
studying without glancing at one of his devices. The daughter Lily has her own laptop but
the Campbell family tries to limit her to only an hour a day of use because they say she
will become consumed in it. The family member most addicted to technology is Mr.
Campbell. His phone or laptop is the last thing he checks every night before bed and the
first thing he will check every morning. He is practically unable go on family vacations
without spending a majority of the time on his devices. On the couples, 'second honey
moon' he was down in the hotels technology center for two and a half hours
a day. Mr. Campbell is also often found in the bathroom playing video games on his
phone for long periods of time. Richtel explains in his article that Mrs. Campbell is
concerned with her husband and children's use of technology and tires to engage the
whole family to do things together but even she has found recently that she is becoming
more and more consumed with checking her emails and going on Facebook.

The Campbell's situation that Richtel describes in his essay helps his argument
because it creates a sense of urgency in its readers. The Campbell family is a typical
family in a America and the effects that technology is describe as having on their daily
lives is enough to strike fear in any parent that technology could take over their lives and
family interactions the way it did the Campbell's. The family is a very relatable scenario
that would relate to a wide range of audiences. This scenario could also make the issue
even more urgent for people who can directly relate to the Campbell's and see similarities
in their situations. Reading his argument and seeing similarities in their own lives could
cause the reader to side with Richtel's argument that technology is taking a serious toll on
any family. Mr. Campbell is quoted in Richtel's argument describing technology as, ' A
mixed blessing [' ] if your not careful your marriage can fall apart or your kids can be
ready to play and you'll get distracted'. Parents reading the article could consider
how much time they spend with their children and how much time they spend on
technology and agree with Richtel's argument that their behavior with technology and
their interactions with children could have negative effects on their own family life.

Richtel also knows that families value making the most of their times spent
together and by presenting the Campbell family who does not have a good functioning
relationship at times, it makes the argument really hit home for a lot of people. Families
who read, 'Hooked on Technology and Paying a Price', would agree with Richtel that
technology is having a negative toll on families if it interferes with their ability to spend
time together because they value time with each other more than time with electronics.
Richtel chose to build his argument around his attended audience and what he knew
would be their values which made his points much more effective. By presenting the issue
of technology through a situation like the Campbell family, Richtel makes his argument
much more relatable and have a more significant impact on the reader. Through this use
of Kiaros in his argument Richtel shows that he clearly understands whom his audience is
and how to relate to them.

Richtel's article was also published in the New York Times, which is an extremely
popular newspaper for a lot of people. Someone sitting at their kitchen table, or at work,
or at a coffee shop might read this and take a good look at their current situation with
technology and come to terms with the fact that it may be having a negative impact on
their family. Someone reading this article at home while having breakfast could see some
similarities with the Campbell family and consider Ritchel's argument to be very valid.
By making his argument so accessible to so many people he make it easier for his target
audience to read his article, relate to it, and consider the valid points he makes in his
argument.

Ritchel also points out the other side of the argument from a scientific point of
view. For example Richtel has examples of research done at the Dr. Smalls observed that,
'Internet users showed greater brain activity than nonusers, suggesting they were growing
their neural circuitry'. Richtel also includes research from the University of
Rochester that says, 'players of some fast based video games can track the movement of a
third more objects on a screen than non-players'. Richtel acknowledges in his article
that there is another side to technology that can be beneficial. But his argument is still
going to matter more to his audience than the scientific argument of his opponents,
because families value time spent together and interaction with one another more than
they would value the benefits that come with the excessive use of technology. Richtel's
knowledge of family values and his ability to include the story of the Campbell's helps
him to connect his audience to his argument. This essentially makes his argument much
more sucessful.

Through Richtel's use of Stasis and Kairos theory he is able to produce a very
successful and valid argument about the dangerous power of technology. Richtel
established that he understood who his audience was and from there he built his argument
around them and made it relatable enough that many readers of the New York Times who
stumbled across the article would consider rethinking the use of technology and the role it
plays in their and their families daily lives.

