Technology, whether the greater portion of humanity approves of it or not,
has become a central part of society, and of all human life, in the recent few years.
There seems to be no stop to updates, new models coming out, and other, various
improvements to existing prototypes. Out of the many types of technology that exist,
the most popular are computers. They are also arguably the most useful for different
types of functioning. In the United States, it is incredibly unusual to not have
multiple computers in most schools, companies, libraries, and even households.
Computers are necessary for office work and schoolwork. However, too much of a
good or necessary thing can be bad, and many worry about the human race's new
dependency on technology. One of these people is Matt Richtel. In the form of an
article, he writes his opinion on the growing use of computers and addiction many
have for them. Because Richtel uses the techniques of kairos and stasis theory to
acknowledge both the good and bad practices of using computers even while
focusing on the negative consequences, he creates a very convincing argument in
which he states that although computers are useful, they can be harmful in too much
excess.

Exercising the convention of timeliness in regards to kairos, Richtel
effectively convinces the reader or audience that not only is the topic of computer
usage important, it is also imperative for the public to be knowledgeable about the
negative repercussions they may experience. Every year, more and more people
gain access to computers as they are now seen as a necessity for nearly any type of
schooling or job. They are also constantly used for leisure if one enjoys browsing the
Internet or playing video games. However, Richtel's argument against the usage of
computers comes at a very important time when a large population is spending too
much time on their computers. Richtel argues that if one uses a computer
constantly, their brain can be rewritten or changed. He writes, 'Scientists say
juggling e- 'mail, phone calls, and other incoming information can change how people
think and behave'. Although this may not seem to cause a drastic
change, it is something that very few people realize or acknowledge. Not only are
people's brains being changed, some people, such as the example of Korn Campbell
that Richtel provides, are becoming addicted to their electronics. Richtel includes
statements from scientists about the addicting quality of technology to prove his
point: 'Researchers compare the lure of digital stimulation less to that of drugs and
alcohol than to food and sex, which are essential but counterproductive in excess'.
It also seems that some have begun to care more about their gadgets
than their family. Richtel writes that Campbell's daughter has jokingly stated that it
seems as if her father cares more about his technology than his actual family.

Richtel helps to make his argument successful by utilizing both kairos and
stasis theory in order to be aware of his audience and their possible counter
arguments. Richtel's article originates from the popular newspaper The New York
Times. It is found online under the technology section. Therefore, Richtel knew that
his main audience would be comprised of technology users. Although his main
argument is against the massive practicing of technology, he also makes sure to
include facts and examples about how computers are actually beneficial to appease
this audience. One way he does this is through the example of Campbell's wife. Even
though she wishes that her husband spent less time on his various technological
devices, she understands that it is a huge part of his life. She says, 'Technology is a
fabric of who he [Campbell] is' If I hated technology, I'd be hating him' too'.
Another way he acknowledges the opposing argument is by including
research by scientists about habits picked up by technology users that can help
them in their day- 'to- 'day lives. He claims that, 'imaging studies show the brains of
Internet users become more efficient at finding information'. Not only can
using technology help the brain, it can also improve the overall lives of the
population: '[Technologies] have transformed life. They let people escape their
cubicles and work anywhere'. Therefore, Richtel proves that technology and
computers can advance society, but continuously warns the readers that abusing it
can have serious consequences. He makes the audience think about how their
technology is affecting their life, especially their family and social life, and how they
should begin to think about changing these habits if they are too dependent on
computers.

The 4 stases of conjecture, definition, quality, and policy that Richtel employs
assist him when convincing readers that his argument is correct. When considering
conjecture, Richtel clearly states that yes, the problem of computer and technology
usage is a serious one that we must take seriously. No one can deny that the
consumption of computers and technology by the mass public keeps rising at an
incredible rate. This goes along with the definition of the addictiveness of
technology. In the case of Campbell, according to Richtel, he was using, 'two
computer screens alive with e- 'mail, instant messages, online chats, a Web browser,
and the computer code he was writing'. Due to the technological focus of
Campbell's work and job, he is an extreme example of computer ownership and
usage. However, this instance can be similar for many in the work force who operate
on computers. In terms of quality, the example of Campbell proves that technology
is both addicting and necessary. His family teases him about his love for computers,
but it is his job to work with them. As Richtel says, 'he[Campbell] craves the
stimulation he gets from his electronic gadgets'. Campbell is dependent on
technology, but is still able to have a family and a life outside of computers. When
policies become relevant is only when one is obsessed with technology, and cannot
sustain a life outside of it. However, Richtel does not necessarily give a solution to
this rising problem of computer usage, he only states that there is a problem.

Richtel makes a convincing and successful argument about the massive
impact computers have on society by using rhetorical techniques of kairos and
stasis theory. In relation to kairos, Richtel times his argument extremely well. It is
the age of technology and has been for the past few years. Richtel's article was
posted in 2010, but the over- 'use of technology continues to this day, which makes
his argument important even after 4 years. Richtel also forms his argument while
keeping his target audience, mainly consisting of workers or those interested in the
technology field, in mind. To mollify these readers, he also uses kairos and stasis
theory when acknowledging the positive things about technology, and how they are
helping to improve brain functionality and living situations. Richtel's final utilization
of stasis theory comes in the form of questions about conjecture, definition, quality,
and policy. He says that the trend of technology is still rising, that people, especially
those that work with computers, have an excess of technology, that sometimes
technology is necessary even if it is addicting, yet he does not include any possible
solutions to this problem. Overall, by utilizing kairos and stasis theory, Richtel
creates a highly effective argument that states that technology is addicting and
humanity is becoming too dependent on it.

