The main topic in Matt Richtel's article 'Hooked on Technology and Paying a Price' is
timely because technology is so popular and powerful in our world today. Yes in some ways it
does help make our jobs easier but it does have negative effects after a while. This happens when
we let technology impact a bigger part of our lives than necessary. Currently in 2014 technology
is the best it has ever been yet inventors are still working on making them better, faster, and more
durable. I think that as long as technology keeps getting improved this topic will be timely,
especially considering that commercials are all over the television advertising these products
twenty-four seven, and we as humans are constantly using these devices.

The topic is urgent because while reading this article most of us just thought that Kord
Campbell was just an extreme case and that this could never happen to us and then, by force of
habit, we reached over and checked our phones. We forgot that this story in front of us could
easily be us one day. The urgency of this topic is emphasized through the presence of his wife
and children and how his addiction was impacting and spreading to his children. The urgency is
also demonstrated when Campbell missed the million dollar email. We miss what is going on in
the world around us when we make these technological devices our world. We read past this
example and brush it off saying that we would never miss something this important because of
technology but we walk with our head down and our eyes glued to our phones missing the world
around us and walking into other people.

I do not think Campbell is aware of his situation because he is the one going through it.
He thinks that he does not have as big as a problem as he really does. I think his wife notices it
more because it affects her marriage and her children. The Campbell family has allowed
technology to invade their dinner time, and this is the case with most of today's modern families.
Texting, and social media all have a place at our dinner tables and they distract families from
each other and instead of talking of how the day was spent we are strolling through pictures or
tweets of our friends. He shows an awareness of his audience by knowing that he is not the only
one suffering from technology addiction. He is also speaking to those that are on the pathway to
becoming just like him.

The venue in which the argument is being made is inside their home and on their
vacation. Campbell is limited by the venues because they help the case against him. He could not
enjoy his vacation that he paid for because he could not put his electronics away long enough to
spend time with his family. Technology invading his home life is also supported by the venues.
Although he uses video games to bond with his son this is the only good purpose they serve.
Technology is often used in the Campbell house and they tear the family further apart from each
other because they go into their own bubbles while using them and then refrain from interacting
with each other.

The author does show an awareness of disagreements with his arguments because he
defends all the mistakes that come from him being addicted to technology. Each time it is proven
why technology is making his life more difficult and how he is addicted to it he states a reason
why it is helping his life. Campbell is on the defense every time he is accused of this act, and
these are his points of dispute.

The argument of how technology can have negative affects is made by Richtel putting
Campbell's family into the story. Readers can see how his devices pull him away from his family
and after a while of reading we can see that once his family starts using their devices they get
pulled away as well. Readers are also able to see how their family could have similarities to the
Campbell family, which could help them see there is a problem and work towards fixing it before
it gets worse.

