In the essay 'Hooked on Technology, and Paying a Price', Matt Richtel examines the
effects technology has on work and family life. This was a prevalent issue in society when this
essay was originally published due to the rising number of people who heavily relied on
technology and multitasking to preform simple every-day activities. It is and was a social norm
to be connected to the online world at all times throughout the day and night. Richtel makes his
argument successful by acknowledging the fact that this was a current and relevant topic when
this article was first published through his use of kairos and by showing the audience how
technology is negatively affecting how people communicate with one another and perform
straightforward activities through his use of stasis.

Richtel begins his essay by utilizing the kairos theory, which is essentially informing his
audience of how urgent the issues associated with technology and human behavior truly are. He
provides a true story of a man named Kord Campbell who started a successful internet business.
Campbell, just like most people, uses his computer to communicate with the outside world. He
participates in online chat groups, messaging, and emails, which are all done through the
computer screen. One day, he receives an email that would dramatically change his life;
however, he fails to notice the email for a total of twelve days. This important email explained
that 'a big company wanted to buy his Internet start-up'. He overlooked this
extremely significant email because of the multitude of other online activities he was taking part
in. This example proves just how pressing the issue of technology and multi-tasking really is.
Richtel is providing explicit evidence that there are people in the world who are constantly
connected to their technology devices while disconnected to interpersonal contact, which is
essentially proving that this is an important and relevant topic.

Knowing that his audience may not thoroughly understand the importance of the previous
email example, Richtel then goes on to provide concrete examples as to how being 'hooked on
technology' truly affects life at home and in the workplace. He even includes a quotation by
Kord Campbell's wife Brenda. She explains how sometimes her husband isn't fully involved
and 'can no longer be fully in the moment'. These examples go more in depth as to
how the technology is affecting the way Campbell communicates with his family members. This
provides more urgency to the issue, because people grasp a better understanding of how serious
this addiction can truly become. Not only does Richtel go on to describe the importance of
technology in the life of Kord Campbell, but he also includes scientific evidence and research
behind multitasking. He states that 'Scientists say juggling e-mail, phone call and other
incoming information can change how people think and behave'. Nora Volkow,
who is 'the director of the National Institute of Drug Abuse and one of the world's leading brain
scientist', is even quoted throughout this article explaining the dangers between technology
addiction and the human brain. Richtel is persuading his audience that this topic is
urgent and relevant by showing people that scientific research is ongoing regarding this topic.
Not only has research been done at that point in time, but scientists have even come up with
concrete conclusions, which shows that this was an appropriate time to make the argument about
the connection between technology addiction and the way humans perform common activities.
By using Kairos to press this issue of urgency, Richtel is strengthening his overall argument. He
is showing his readers that additional scientists are examining the effects technology has on the
human brain. When humans read information that is scientifically proven, we naturally tend to
trust those facts more than information that is presented to us by an author unfamiliar to us. The
research included in this essay further explains to his readers that this was an appropriate time to
address this specific issue of technology addiction.

Not only does Richtel explain to the audience that this issue is timely and urgent through
modern day examples, specific evidence, and scientific research, but he also utilizes the stasis
theory by acknowledging the opposing arguments and disagreements. The scientific information
being provided is used to prove that disputing arguments are incorrect. The first time he
mentions that people may have different beliefs towards multitasking is on page 88. He says that
'many people say multitasking makes them more productive'. Then, however, he
immediately provides scientific information to prove this statement wrong. He states that ''
research shows otherwise. Heavy multitaskers actually have more trouble focusing and shutting
out irrelevant information, scientists say, and they experience more stress.'. He also
goes on to recognize the fact that technology can benefit the brain in some ways. Although he
touches base on the fact that technology has been good in the past, his major argument is
definitely that overuse of technology has negative effects on humans, even though he never
explicitly states that. The essay does not argue that all technology is bad, and people should
eliminate any type of technology from their lives. Richtel simply states evidence that supports
his opinion that being attached and addicted to technology can cause negative effects on humans
in order to prove his point.

By providing this extensive example of the Campbell family, Richtel is also using another
aspect of stasis by implying to the audience that their families could potentially become as
addicted to staying connected to the online world as the Campbell family. Many people could
potentially see this family as an extreme case, but by including information and examples all
throughout the lives of the members in the Campbell family, Richtel is explaining that this is not
only possible, but also more common than the readers had previously contemplated. Richtel
never actually comes out and says that every person who uses some aspect of technology will
become addicted, but he causes readers to think about the situation as a whole. This strengthens
the argument because it also makes the readers relate the situation the Campbell family is going
through to their own lives. It makes them question how often they are on their phones and if it is
truly possible for their own family members to depend so heavily on technology.

Overall, Richtel uses scientific research, specific modern day examples, opposing
arguments, and potential indicators -- which are all concepts of kairos and stasis -- that
strengthen his overall argument. By using these two rhetorical devices, he is convincing his
audience that being 'hooked on technology' and multitasking does have a negative effect on the
brain. The sense of urgency and timeliness, or the rhetorical device of kairos, provides the most
strength to the idea of the overall essay. If this was not a relevant and popular theme throughout
society, people would not take into consideration what Richtel has to say. By showing his
audience that even an average family has the possibility to become addicted to technology,
Richtel is expressing how critical this topic truly is. Taking advantage of the perfect opportunity
to address this topic allowed readers to realize what was going on in their society during the time
this article was first published.

