In Saunders speech 'Advice to Graduates' he argues the point that kindness is a key
virtue to strive for in life even though it isn't always easy. He tries to bring the young audience to
his point of view by being relatable in multiple ways. The language he uses is easy to
understand, and he also tries to keep the audience involved by using examples from his own life.
He wants to convince these young people that kindness is worthwhile, he is older and has been
through what they are about to face and advises them because he doesn't want them to have the
same regrets that he has. To make his argument successful he uses a couple techniques including
Kairos and stasis theory. He uses Kairos to make the present feel real to them and uses stasis to
guide them for a better future while displaying what the latter could be.

This speech was a convocation speech given to a class of graduates about to enter the
next chapter of their lives. He uses comic relief to introduce himself but shortly after he
introduces the subject of kindness an overlying theme to his argument. He makes this argument
to them now because young people need advice on the future whether they like it or not. In their
current state their minds are prone to mistakes; Saunders just doesn't want them to make them
same mistakes he has made. He uses an example where he says he doesn't regret skinny dipping
in a river in Sumatra surrounded by 300 monkeys and getting extremely sick afterwards; instead
he brings up when he was in seventh grade and this girl got bullied but he only acted 'sensibly.
Reservedly. Mildly'. He regrets this more even though it didn't affect him directly because
now looking back he says 'what I regret the most in my life are failures of kindness'. He
uses this example to really grab the audience because 40 years later he regrets what most people
would just brush off. With this being a young audience the topic he discusses is very timely and
useful to his argument because kindness takes time. He believes that kindness is hard because we
all start out as selfish, self-centered, or even confused. He says that these confusions 'cause us to
prioritize our own needs over the needs of others'. He later says though that kindness can be
achieved. He speaks that becoming kind is somewhat of a process and that it becomes easier as
we age because 'we come to see how useless it is to be selfish'. He wants the audience to
understand that they don't have to wait on kindness to grow in them, and that with this advice
making it relevant that they can pursue it. The faster that they learn that selfishness is a pointless
the better off they will be. He wants this to be known as an urgent topic to these graduates
because he knows kindness can get them far in life, he has seen it with his own life.

While speaking about this Saunders stays aware of who the audience is and asks them to
question their own lives while giving his own advice. He shows his awareness and understanding
when he says, 'When young we're anxious-understandably- to find out if we've got what it
takes'. The fact that he uses the words 'we're' and 'we've' shows that he is trying to relate
to them as if he were in their shoes once again. Although he is speaking to the graduates as his
main audience he is not limited by this. The venue allows him to speak to an older audience of
parents and family as well. This older audience could use the advice as well it is something that
he thinks everyone should know. Overall Saunders uses these techniques of Kairos as a means of
connecting with the audience and giving his perspective of the future and how it can be if they
follow his advice.

Like in all arguments there can be many views, many questions raised, and people who
agree or disagree with what is being said. Saunders uses stasis theory in order to prove that his
argument is valid and worth the audience's attention. He does this by acknowledging that there
are different sides but keeping the focus on his point of view. This is seen when Saunders is
trying to explain that there are ways that people can become kinder: 'There are ways. You
already know that because, in your life, there have been High Kindness periods and low kindness
periods, and you know what inclined you toward the former and away from the latter'. He
continues after that giving examples of the good things throughout one's life and that people
before them have questioned the same things about kindness. Although he strives to get the
young graduates to pursue 'High Kindness' in their lives he knows that there are times where it
is just not possible. He reiterates that obtaining more kindness isn't easy. There will be 'Low
Kindness' periods in everyone's life he knows that because he has had those, and those are the
times he regrets the most.

The way that Saunders gets the audience to realize that kindness is important is through
the questions he proposes both little and small. The small questions keep the audience in the
moment while the larger questions propose deep thought in these individuals. Some of these are
answered directly whereas the answer may be implied in others. Saunders big questions are
simple but carry a lot of thought: 'What's our problem? Why aren't we kinder?' and 'How
might we do this? How might we become more loving, more open, less selfish' '? These
two big questions are proposed early in the speech so that Saunders has time to explain them
explicitly. In short, he tells them that kindness is possible, it's a process of becoming less selfish
and more loving. Although the big questions are answered clearly and have more weight to the
conversation the small questions can also affect the audience. 'Who, in your life, do you
remember most fondly, with the most undeniable feeling of warmth'? This is an example of
a small question that could have a big impact. He answers it with his opinion, which in turn
leaves it up for the audience to answer on their own. These questions provide a pathway of
thinking to how the future can be, and it provides his perspective while also leaving the door
open for interpretation.

With using stasis theory in his argument Saunders answers the four main questions to
refine and prove his point. The first of these questions is that of conjecture or what is being
considered. What is being considered here, is the act of being kinder and less selfish as well as
how doing this can have an effect on the future. The following question asks for a definition of
the act. Kindness is a process over time of becoming less and less central to oneself and more
and more loving. Kindness is also an act, Saunders says it isn't easy but is achievable. Quality
then comes into play asking how serious is the act being considered? Kindness is a characteristic
that should be taken seriously by all; Saunders knows what kindness has done for him that's why
he is providing this advice. Last of the questions relates to policy, which means is it part of a
formal procedure? Saunders describes it less of a procedure and more of a process based on the
individual and their personal experiences.

Saunders over just a few minutes gets his argument fully covered and projected into the
minds of the young audience. He uses Kairos and Stasis Theory to put forth this perspective and
does it affectively. He wants them to know that kindness can lead you far in life even if it takes
time to gain this kindness. Saunders ends this speech in a way that encompasses his goal for all
who have listened: 'And someday, in 80 years, when you're 100, and I'm 134, and we are both
so kind and loving we're nearly unbearable, drop me a line, let me know how your life has been.
I hope you will say: It has been so wonderful'.

