The film The Hunger Games, based off of the best selling novel by Suzanne Collins continues to uphold its stellar reputation with its on-screen debut. There are many elements involved in converting a book to a film. One of the most difficult tasks is deciding which scenes or dialogues to cut without eliminating something important or changing the overall message. Although the director of The Hunger Games, Gary Ross, did cut some scenes that seemed very crucial to the plot, he found creative ways to use sound and visual effects to convey the same message to the audience as the book did to the readers. One very important conversation in the book that was almost completely cut in the film was the conversation when Haymitch explained how much trouble Katniss was in with the capitol for outsmarting the game makers. However the creators of the movie were able to convey the same message through their use of music and visual effects in the final scenes of the movie. By taking a closer look at the different components of the setting, as well as the choice of music used in the final two scenes of The Hunger Games, we can see a relocation of power and development of danger begin to surface in response to the upset that occurred during the games. This is important because it instills a sense of anxiousness and fear in the audience about the events that will follow.
 
One of the major elements in the final scenes of the hunger games, is the use of contradiction and visual cues to introduce a greater message to the viewer. In the majority of the movie one would expect to find President Snow in the lap of luxury. While on the other hand, expect to find Seneca Crane giving commands in the game room. Thus, when the setting of the final scene reveals the confusion experienced by Seneca Crane as he is locked in an ornately decorated room, the audience is immediately aware of an inconsistency in the plot. The shift from a setting of power to a room of control indicates to the audience that Seneca has been forcibly removed from his seat of power. However the setting alone does not convey a complete understanding of the message being sent.
 
The scene allows the audience greater insight through the use of additional visuals within the scene in combination with the music. As Seneca realizes that he is locked in, a look of confusion washes over his face. In collaboration with his eyes as they dart to the side in search of an explanation, a very high note chimes through the low chords. When Seneca ceases to pan the room locking in on an object in front of him, in addition the steadily flowing music grows louder as the screen moves from his face and locks on the bowl of nightlock staring back. At this point the audience realizes that Seneca has not only lost all power, but that he is on the receiving end of a death sentence. The reason behind this subtle indication of death is just as subtle. Because Seneca allowed Katniss to outsmart him by using the threat of death from nightlock, Seneca's own fate follows in suit. Thus, Seneca was the unwitting receiver of a death trap he had created, not knowing he would play the victim in his own game.
 
In the final scene, messages conveyed through contradictions within the setting continue and reveal further insight into how the upset in the Hunger Games took effect on President Snow. The first glimpse of the setting in this scene reveals another surprising twist in the plot. President Snow rising to the occasion to fill the, now empty, seat of power in the Hunger Games control room. The messages conveyed by placing President Snow in this particular setting following the previous scene are two fold. One is that President Snow must be responsible for the ironic and unmistakably cruel fate that was sure to follow for Seneca Crane. Second was the power that was obviously taken from Seneca had fallen right into the clutches of the man who ordered his kiss of death.
 
Furthermore, the scene introduces a new element being sent to the audience as the messages move from indicating what is, to what will be. The creators of the movie played upon the sense of shock already instilled in the audience when they made use of additional props in the scene to reveal the possibility of what is to come. The idea that Snow is seeking revenge has already been introduced when the puzzle pieces involved in Seneca's fate are put together. As the camera moves from a live TV coverage of Katniss safely returning home from the Hunger Games it reveals the deeply concentrated glare that radiates from President Snows eyes which are glued to the screen. The loud music overcoming the room makes it seem that the concentration on revenge for Katniss is overcoming President Snow. The combination of all of the different elements in this scene indicates to the audience, that for Katniss, what she believes to be the end of her toughest fight ever, could merely be the beginning.
 
This overwhelmingly threatening message that is being sent about Katniss, the main character that everyone has been pulling for, creates a very powerful feeling of fear and anxiousness in the audience. When they finally believe that the person they have been pulling form has made it through, the final two scenes indicate quite the contrary. What makes this message so pivotal for the audience and success of the movie is that it ends with a cliffhanger.
 
Only when the elements of the setting are combined with the use of music, does the scene convey a complete message and sense of anxiousness in the audience. Although the music by itself doesn't send a very loud message, when combined with such dynamic elements of a setting, it can completely enhance and direct the messages that are being introduce through visuals. In this case, the music is used to send a very final message. Thus the creators of the film were successful in conveying a very important message to the audience without having to use the dialogue that was necessary in the book. 



