The recent media has paid a lot of recent attention on women protesting the stereotypical "rape case" and "rape victim".  More often than not, people will argue that the clothes a woman wear can provoke a man.  A woman should "watch what she wears" if she doesn't want to get sexually assaulted.  Others argue as well that a woman cannot allow herself to be heavily intoxicated without expecting a man to attempt to force himself upon her against her will. Women are told to watch how they speak to men as well.  Their flirtatious talk could mislead a man into thinking that a simple smile instead means "yes" for intercourse.  Women are not second-class citizens. Women have as much of a right to their clothes, their body, and their minds just as much as men do.  People everywhere are taught how not to be raped rather than how not to rape in the first place.  The purpose of the photograph is to convince the viewer that women are not at fault for their own rape.  Our greatest stress in regards to sexual assault and rape can no longer be focused on what the women are doing to get them assaulted.  The purpose of the advertisement is to stress that there needs to be a greater focus on why the rapists do what they do and not how women can prevent it.

Both photographers did an amazing job at taking the photographs in such a precise manor.  Both photos had light as a very important fixture that set the mood.  In the first picture, there was a lot of dark contrast used.  It almost seemed like there was some sort of blue tint on the picture which contrasted very well with the white background of the sign as well as the skin pigment of the subject in the photo.  Also, you can vaguely see the use of symmetry and balance.  Behind the subject, there are the straight lines of the window panels, the brick walls, and even the top of the truck.  This is most likely accidental being that the photograph was snapped during a protest where there is much movement.  Something more moving about the photo is that everyone in the photo besides the main subject just seems be walking along paying no mind.  If the fact that the woman was topless wasn't enough to draw the attention of the viewer, the fact that she is the only one looking at the camera will take your attention as well.  The pedestrians in the background and the topless subject easily demonstrate the connotations regarding women.  At a first glance, you see random civilians walking and right smack in the middle of it all, there is a woman in a bra, holding up a sign.  The woman looks promiscuous for the obvious reason that she is topless.  Once you get past the shock factor, the photographer then wants you to realize that just because she is dressed in a more sexual manor, it was not her own fault that she was sexually assaulted.  This might be far fetched but it could be argued that the photograph also demonstrates the humility of the process of not only being raped but reporting it as well.  This woman is almost nude, standing in a large crowed, holding a sign saying "It wasn't MY FAULT".  She is on display for not only the area where this took place but now the entire world.  Rape or any form of sexual harassment for that matter is exploiting these women in numerous ways.  Following the sexual assault, there comes the possibility of court if the assault is reported, and there can even be therapy.  In both instances the victim is most likely going to be giving details of the assault to either a therapist or even a jury of people they've never met.  On top of the exploitation of the woman during her rape, she has to now relive it on trial while she is getting badgered by lawyers. This mental and emotional tole is almost like the woman is naked all over again, exactly like the photograph.   The purpose of this photograph is to draw attention to the hysteria regarding women being blamed for their own sexual assault.  Like previously mentioned, what a woman is wearing, does not justify what is done to be done to her own body without her own consent. The use of dreary lighting, focal point, and the shock factor have all aided in not only attracting your attention to the cause, but symbolizing what these women go through afterward mentally and emotionally.

Identical to the first picture, the second photo is of a woman walking through a protest regarding sexual assault and the publics attitude towards it.  Specifically, this protest is called "The Slut Walk" which invokes a reaction due to the obvious "slut shaming" in the name which is something women are trying to end.  Alike to the first picture, the photographer of the second picture used contrast very well in setting a mood for the picture.  The dark colors stressed in the picture contrast very well with the subject of the photo and the sign she is holding.  Again, similar to the first picture, the blurred background of the photo also sets an important focus on the subject of the photo.  The focus of the subject in the picture and the blurred background symbolizes the victims feeling of aloneness and frustration during the entire process of assault, reporting, legal processes, and even trying to regain mental stability after all of these occurrences.  Her pale skin and shaved head give the allusion that she is bare and open for the world to see and even judge.  During an examination of the picture, you can see the frustration in the face of the subject and you can almost get a feel of the passion she has towards the topic.  She seems to exemplify the aggravation and rebellious attitude of those who protest these unjust inclinations.  The set and mood of the photograph as well as the visual passion in the subjects face does a great job in representing the topic she is objecting.

In both instances, the main subjects of the photograph exude passion and determination.  The photographs executed the meaning behind the pictures perfectly with not only their use of contrast, shadowing and line work, but an amazing use of focal point as well.  It is not known if these photographers just got lucky with great shots, but these pictures alone symbolize everything that these women are fighting for and against.  Ultimately, the meaning behind each of the photos reflects greatly of the connotation women trying to break and these advertisements doing an exceptional job at drawing in the viewer to agree with the case made.
