In Suzanne Collins's The Hunger Games, a constant dynamic is established between those who control society and those who actually contribute to its existence.  A theme of oppression becomes clearly evident, posing the possibility for dissent and rebellion within the society of Panem.  The characters used in the plot serve as symbols to this grueling process and its development throughout the book and continuing series.  By looking at the first meeting between Katniss and her stylist Cinna in The Hunger Games, we can see Katniss's faults and social shortcomings in her judgments of those around her, which many readers often fail to consider.  This is important because it demonstrates that despite Katniss's pre-conceived expectations, not all citizens of the Capitol are alike.  Within an oppressed society, individuality must exist for any wave of change to occur, and in this passage from The Hunger Games, Katniss and Cinna represent that individuality with their non-conventional attitudes and view of the world in which they live, which could potentially challenge the oppressive nation of Panem.
	
When Cinna first approaches the complex Katniss, she is initially surprised by his refined beauty and simplistic style, which is so uncharacteristic of typical capitol citizens.  "Cinna has met none of these expectations" (64), she remarks to herself, referring to his lacking of typical flamboyance that one would expect of someone with his job.  Katniss has shown herself to not always be the most socially aware character and her encounter with Cinna reinforces this hypothesis.  We as readers may notice an immediate tone in her during this encounter as she wearily attempts to understand his behavior.  While Katniss carefully analyzes her stylist she is reacting in a way stereotypical of an oppressed person.  She is weary, fearful, and even possibly intimidated of this man, not because he has personally assaulted her in any way, but merely because he is one of "them".  Upon their first meeting, Cinna represents to Katniss the Capitol, which in turn represents control and oppression.  Cinna, however, immediately begins to contradict the image of a Capitol citizen by showing Katniss extreme kindness.   As he compliments her hairstyle, compliments her mother's skill as well which is a tender spot for Katniss at this point, we see a repetition of Katniss's social awkwardness when she seems taken aback.  She is unsure of how to respond to such honest kindness in part because she does not view herself as valuable or understand the effect she has on those around her.  Previously in her life Katniss has been the caretaker in her mother's psychological absence and has never taken the time to consider her own importance to the people she is closest to, much less a complete stranger in an unfamiliar situation.
	
After learning that this is Cinna's first year as a stylist in the Hunger Games she immediately pounces on what she believes to be the obvious by asking, "So they gave you District Twelve"(64).  This simple interrogation provides key insight into not only Katniss's low view of herself, but her lack of enthusiasm concerning her native district as well.  The belief that District Twelve is of less value than other districts is an opinion that has been given precedent by the Capitol with its sheer indifference towards the poverty and starvation that constantly occurs there.  While other districts such as 1 and 2 are shown favoritism by the Capitol since they supply them with the extravagances they require to maintain their lavish lifestyle, District 12 seems almost forgotten by the other Districts as well.  Though Katniss is not ashamed of her home, she is very well aware of how others look down on where she comes from.  The most significant surprise come when Cinna unexpectedly responds to the question by stating the contrary; "I asked for District twelve"(64).  This statement is simple in appearance but is a direct contradiction to Katniss's previous thoughts and judgments of Cinna and his intentions in the games.  He is not participating to bring glory to his own name and career but rather to actually do something kind and good for a district that is rarely the recipient of some decencies.  In this section of the passage a certain conclusion can be made about Cinna.  Though his intentions are not entirely clear at this moment in the plot, he is clearly a man of the underdog and values District 12 even when others may let it slip from their minds.  For some reason he possesses admiration for a lowly girl rom District Twelve and what she represents.  Cinna is probably the first character thus far to place any true level of confidence in Katniss or to act as a friend towards her.  He is more involved in the actual happenings of the Games and is rooting for Katniss instead of ignoring her because she is from District 12 like others that view the games on the television like some sporting event.  Though inciting rebellion may not be any intention belonging to Cinna, he is clearly distinct in comparison to other Capitol people and the cruel oppression they represent.  However, it is not only his kindness that separates him from the rest of the citizens of the Capitol.  Cinna as a character lacks the self-absorbed tendencies that most of the other people around him possess and instead focuses on the needs of people around him like Katniss and Peeta.  And more significant than that, he actually understands listens to Katniss and empathizes with her rather than showing her pity and sympathy.
 
In the next section of the passage a large amount of internal thoughts come forth from Katniss, primarily concerning the meal in front of her.  At first glance this may seem of little significance; however in this passage Katniss compares the meal and its ingredients to what she could possibly conjure up for a meal at home.  She thinks out the entire vigorous process that it would require for a poor girl like her to even begin to assemble something that compares to the fine meal laid before her.  This presents a major contrast between the people of the Capitol and those of the poorer districts of Panem.  In the Capitol, everything is done for entertainment and pleasure.  This is a very different mindset from the people of the outer districts who struggle on a daily basis to work enough to put a meager amount of food on their tables.  Here again, the theme of oppression is clearly present.  Cinna once again seems to understand Katniss on a deeper level by saying, "How despicable we must seem to you"(65).  The importance of this dialogue is great because it signifies that Cinna recognizes that something is wrong with the lifestyle he knows.  While most of the Capitol citizens remain oblivious to the continuing oppression and their role in its execution, Cinna knows and understands to some extent the larger picture.  Katniss does not respond verbally but instead thinks to herself,  "He's right though. The whole rotten lot of them is despicable"(65).  The entire Capitol is lumped together into an oppressive group in the minds of potentially rebellious districts, demonstrating the struggle between the oppressor, versus the oppressed.  It is Cinna's individuality and recognition of this horror that reveals a crack in the fortress of Panem, foreshadowing the trying struggle to come.

Katniss and Cinna are unique symbolic characters that are not only valuable to this particular passage, but The Hunger Games series as a whole.  Katniss, despite her personal challenges and troubled social skills, is a strong figure that is beginning to recognize that she plays a role both in the games and in a changing society.  Cinna offers the insight she needs by providing her with a solid start in her journey, listening and having confidence in her as a tribute, and understanding the evils of the land that they inhabit together.  Though they both play very different roles as characters, both Katniss and Cinna are sparks of individuality in a world that thrives on conformation to control and oppress.  The oppression that occurs in Panem prior to the games is key to the shifting mentality of its citizens and the slow, but imminent rebellion that will ensue.  


