The Hunger Games is a fight to death among 24 children from the 12 districts surrounding the capital and the victor is usually a competitor who was strong and emotionless with a desire to kill that was until Katniss Everdeen the girl on fire entered into the Hunger Game's arena.  Katniss Everdeen was an exception to the normal victor of the games.  She was a young girl from District 12 who appeared to have a tough emotionless personality because of her hunter instinct; however, in reality she was a young girl who was forced to grow up too quickly because she had to take care of her younger sister Prim.  By looking at the revealing interview scene between Katniss and Ceaser we can see a breakthrough in Katniss's tough exterior in the beginning of the interview as she spins and "giggles" in her fire dress and truthfully discusses her close relationship to her younger sister Prim; this is important because it illustrates the split personality of Katniss which gave her an advantage over the other 23 competitors and ultimately helped her win the Hunger Games.  
	
The interview scene between Katniss and Ceaser begins with Katniss feeling like she is in dream as she walks onto the stage and nervously shakes Ceaser's hand with her sweaty palm.  Immediately after the handshake the interview starts and Ceaser begins with easy conversation starter questions.  At first Katniss does not have the ability to answer these simple questions because she is so nervous.   Katniss desperately searches the crowd looking for Cinna and as soon as she finds him and locks eyes with him her confidence is regained and she has the ability to understand and answer Ceaser's questions.  The beginning of this scene illustrates Katniss's childlike qualities because of her dependence on an adult figure, Cinna.  Cinna acts like a type of emtional foundation for Katniss and helps keep her calm, cool, and collected.  As the interview continues, Cinna continues to provide guidance and direction for Katniss from his position in the crowd.  He motions for Katniss to spin by twirling his finger in the air and Katniss follows his directions.  Katniss spins and ends up giggling as she spins for the crowd and listens to the "oohs and ahhs" coming from the audience as they gawk at the innocence and beauty of Katniss.  Katniss spins until she is dizzy and Ceaser "wraps a protective arm" around her as she finishes her spinning and guides her back to her chair. The reality and the seriousness of the situation being chosen to be a tribute in the Hunger Games sets in.  The beginning of the interview illustrates Katniss' childlike qualities because of her dependence on Cinna for directions and her giggling that occurs as she spins and shows off for the crowd. Throughout the interview Katniss constantly reminds herself of the piece of advice Cinna gave her, "to be honest". For the first time in the novel the reader catches a glimpse of Katniss that portrays her as a young girl. 
	
Immediately after Katniss is portrayed as this giggling young girl who still needs an adult's guidance to help calm her nerves, her maternal nature is displayed in the interview.  Slowly the mood quiets in the room and Ceaser's mood shifts from his jovial sense of humor to a serious nature.  He questions Katniss about the devastating reaping scene and her relationship with Prim.  Katniss responds to Ceaser's questions about Prim with three short sentences, "Her name is Prim. She's just 12. And I love her more than anything" (Collins 129).  Ceaser asks Katniss another question about Prim and what Prim said after the reaping and Katniss forces herself to respond and she swallows hard and replies "She asked me to try really hard to win."  This brief moment where Ceaser questions Katniss about Prim illustrates Katniss's motherly instinct and the idea that Katniss will do anything to protect her sister. The line where Katniss confesses that she loves Prim more than anything reveals to the reader the maternal nature of Katniss.  A mother loves her child with all her heart and will do anything for her child and that is exactly what Katniss is doing for Prim.  Katniss is sacrificing her life for her younger sister which illustrates a true act of love and protection because it is explained later in the novel that a volunteer for a tribute rarely happens during the games.  Peeta had siblings and none of them volunteered to sacrifice their life for him.  Katniss demonstatred her true motherly instinct when she refused to watch her sister, the person she loves most in the world, go to the hunger games.    The idea that Katniss will do anything to protect Prim is obvious because Katniss is risking her life for Prim and is going to be placed into arena with 24 other people and only one person will come out alive and be crowned victor.  The dramatic flare and struggle as Katniss has to answer the next question in the interview also illustrates Katniss maternal side because Katniss subconsciously knows Prim is relying wholeheartedly on Katniss to come back alive.  
	
Katniss realization that Prim relies so heavily on her, transforms Katniss's personality again and brings back the tough character that has been portrayed throughout the beginning part of the novel.  Ceaser asks Katniss what her response was to Prim asking her to win the hunger games and Katniss describes a sensation that illustrates a tough emotional exterior.  Katniss describes the feeling of icy rigidity taking over her body similar to the feeling she gets before she kills and she feels her voice drop an octave as she responds to Ceaser's question with the response "I swore I would" (Collins 129).  Katniss's reaction to the question illustrates her toughness and the idea that she will do anything to win these games especially for her sister.
	
During this interview scene Katniss illustrates three different sides of her personality.  Each part of her personality brings a different attribute of strength to the table and aids her in becoming the victor of the hunger games.  Katniss is portrtayed as a young girl who needs the care and guidance of an adult in the beginning of the interview; however, as the interview continues the reader gets a glimpse of her maternal nature and how she was forced to grow up too quickly, and then finally her final transformation into the icy rigid personality that instigates her killer instinct. Katniss portrayal in the beginning of the interview was illustrated as weak, with child-like innocence; however as the interview continues the reader gets a glimpse of a person who will do anything to win and protect her sister.  Katniss's main goal is to win the 75th annual Hunger Game and return home to her younger sister in District 12. 


