In the movie adaptation of Suzanne Collins's The Hunger Games, a visual depiction of the novel introduces a totalitarian system in which twenty four children from the country Panem are sacrificed for the purpose of a televised game of survival. The visual representation of Panem's District 12 allows viewers to witness the struggles the citizens must endure with no help, only hindrance, from the government, which is located in the Capitol. The first introduction of the Capitol in the film is during the Reaping scene, which is where a male and female tribute is each chosen from District 12 to partake in the annual Hunger Games. This is a very somber scene, filled with emotion and tension from the district, but this silence is interrupted by the representative from the Capitol, Effie Trinket, whose job it is to announce the tributes. By looking at the innocent and anxious looks on the children in the audience's faces contrasted with Effie's eager and boisterous presence during the reaping scene, we can see that Collins chose to have a ridiculous character be a stand in for the Capitol in carrying out the job of leading the reaping; this is important because it creates a comedic tone by a character that should bear significance in the government which hints at the cracks in the oppressive regime. 
	
The reaping scene begins with the Capitol representative, Effie Trinket, dressed in a rosy and fashion forward outfit paired with a bold hairstyle, outlandish make up, and a ridiculously large bow on her head, on stage speaking to the dreary and washed out audience. The camera spans across the audience several times, focusing only on Katniss and Gale once. This focus on individual faces in the audience of potential victims creates an emotional bond between them and the viewer, as there is an anxious atmosphere concerning who will be chosen as the tributes. The drastic physical contrast between Effie and the audience is what begins to represent the divide between the Capitol and the districts. Effie has extensive make up and perfectly curled hair, while the children are dressed very modestly as if they were from a past generation and definitely from a different social class than Effie. The cheery tone in her voice compared with the apprehensive and uneasy faces staring back at her builds sympathy for the audience as they are seen as the victims even before a name has been called. The viewer empathizes with the audience because, like them, the movie watcher is just a witness to the reaping- neither has control over what is to come.
	
The sound effects during the reaping scene also build tension between the audience and the Capitol. As Effie is welcoming everyone to the reaping, the pride and strength in her voice is the only thing heard. Then as she makes her way over to the glass to choose the name of the first tribute, her footsteps and her cough to clear her throat build anticipation for the announcement of the tributes. As she moves her hand around the glass, the audience is silent, and she swishes a paper out. Her footsteps are again the only thing heard as she walks back to the microphone and fumbles to uncrumble the slip of paper. All of these sound effects intensify the scene because the audience is waiting patiently and anxiously for the first name to be called, while Effie takes her time and doesn't seem to realize the heaviness of the situation. The cheerfulness in her voice proves her and the Capitol's views differ from those of District 12's because she doesn't comprehend that the Hunger Games are seen as a death sentence for them. The viewer can see the look of fear on the audience's faces coupled with the amusement Effie Trinket has during the reaping and chooses to side with the innocent bystanders.
	
When Primrose's name is called, the camera moves around the crowd and their worn down faces; although no one makes a sound, their eyes tell a story of compassion that a twelve year old is chosen. The camera focuses only on Katniss and Prim's faces, showing disbelief on both. The crowd, allowing Prim a path to pass through, shows empathy and respect for the tribute. However, the emotional appeal is highest when Prim tucks her shirt back into her skirt, because it reminds the viewer that this is a child that is being sent to her death, one that isn't even used to fending for herself. Heightening the emotions of the scene, Katniss makes her way through the crowd and once she sees Prim, cries out that she volunteers herself as tribute. Replacing her sister as tribute is basically seen as suicide for Katniss, but this surge of emotion is the climax of the scene as Prim is so upset she must be carried away by Gale. This system of support is automatically understood by the viewer because the love Katniss has for her sister runs so deep she is willing to risk her life for her. Combining the genuine and frightened screams from Prim as she is carried away with the calm and collected response of Effie deepens the contrast between the government and those living under their rules and regulations. Bringing Effie's involvement into this emotion filled scene seems to bring an air of ridiculousness that doesn't belong in the somber event, or to the controlling government, which first introduces the idea that the Capitol breeds shallow people.
	
As Katniss walks towards the stage, obviously scared and vulnerable, the greatest difference between the district and the Capitol is presented. Effie Trinket sees having a volunteer as an exciting turn of events and continues to put on a show for the cameras; however, instead of clapping, the audience signals a sign of respect towards Katniss for her sacrifice. Continuing the reaping with no sign of any deep emotion displays the Capitol's disrespect for human life and their concentration on just providing a show. As the audience appears traumatized, especially Prim and her mother, Effie ignores this and proceeds to call the name of the male tribute, Peeta Mellark, who proceeds to the stage in shock and with his emotions written all over his face. Instead of acknowledging the feelings of the tributes as they are scared to death, Effie genuinely seems excited for the games to begin. The conclusion of the reaping scene leaves the viewer to await the beginning of the games, frightened for the tributes and appalled by the decisions of the Capitol.
	
The emotion presented in the reaping scene in the form of sounds, expressions, and actions heightens the drama and suspense for the viewer; however, the difference of emotions between the Capitol's representative and the audience of district 12 is extremely apparent. This suggests the differing mindsets of those in power, those without power, and those brainwashed by power. The children at risk during the reaping and the chosen tributes have no control over their future and are scared to death for the Hunger Games that the Capitol is forcing them to play, while Capitol-bred Effie is genuinely excited for the games to begin and oblivious to the intense tension in the scene. The imbalance of power between district and Capitol is worrying, not only because Katniss and Peeta, as tributes from District 12, have almost no chance of survival, but also because the manipulative government in the Capitol raises a race of people that cannot see the terrible truth that surrounds them, represented by Effie. Although this sort of character creates a comedic relief in the novel and movie, I think Collins is making it apparent that it is not always in humanity's best interest to do as we're told and remain within the status-quo, but instead be the voice that stands up for what they believe in.

