Experts say we need to eat healthier and need to choose what we put in our bodies more carefully. This has changed the way many food producers and companies advertise their products. Consumers of grocery store products listen to advertisements to become more informed on health. Heinz ketchup is one of those companies. In one of their ketchup advertisements, they depict slices of tomatoes appear stacked on top of each other forming a ketchup bottle. At the bottom, it says, "No one grows Ketchup like Heinz." This advertisement gives Heinz the image of being more organic do to the word choice and the picture in the advertisement itself: a ketchup bottle figure formed by slices of fresh tomatoes.  While many may know that ketchup is not an all-natural substance and has many additives and ingredients in it, Heinz does a good job of distracting the viewer from the facts by using a specific wording as well as a powerful image to supplement the statement.

The careful wording on the ketchup advertisement suggests that Heinz is natural and made from real ingredients. From the word "grows" instead of "makes" or even "manufactures", the viewer can infer that Heinz ketchup is grown instead of being artificially made or processed.  Using any other word would not convey the same idea or give the same message. Also not having any words at the bottom would leave the reader to formulate their own opinion or view of the advertisement, possibly changing the entire message and point of the advertisement. Using the word grows also gives Heinz a more reliable image as being a trustworthy brand that gives information of what actually goes in their ketchup. Since vegetables are grown and products are made, Heinz makes their ketchup seem to be more of a natural food than just a product or creation.

Heinz also uses the word "Nobody" at the beginning of their advertisement, which is an attack on any other ketchup competitors. By using the word "Nobody" Heinz points out and diminishes the reliability of all other brands in making a quality bottle of ketchup. This also isolates Heinz and gives them a different image than everyone else. In most situations the majority of society will believe statements made by media and trust that they are factual accretions. This word also adds to the reliability and trustworthiness of Heinz. Heinz also strategically points out every competitor and brand for there artificialness, instead of singling out individual brands. This keeps Heinz from being criticized by any specific brand and also gives Heinz a more notable image.  By pointing out a specific brand Heinz would seem to be on more of an attack mode and give viewers the idea that Heinz may have something to hide. Heinz also has no need for rebuttal do to their word choice. Other than dismissing competitors, Heinz also uses the word "Nobody" to give them the image of being an elite brand or a brand that has more prestige than others.

In supplement to Heinz's statement at the bottom of their advertisement, they use a picture of a stack of tomato slices in the form of a ketchup bottle. The objective of Heinz is to draw the viewers' attention and to back up their image of being natural instead of processed.  By having a regular bottle of Ketchup instead of actual tomatoes Heinz is not advertising their condiment to its full potential. By using the tomatoes the viewers instantly receive the idea of the ketchup being natural. Tomatoes are not man made and with the image given by Heinz neither is their ketchup.

Heinz also places the ketchup bottle over the statement to work with the way the viewer would read the advertisement. The average viewer would first see the picture and then read the claim below, which is the order of effect Heinz wants to have. This way the viewer can interpret the message of the advertisement and then read the caption below and see what message is actually being conveyed.  Overall the picture of the tomatoes adds to Heinz credibility reinforces the order in which the viewer receives the message.

While many may know that ketchup is not an all-natural substance and has many additives and ingredients in it, Heinz does a good job of distracting the viewer from the facts by using a specific wording as well as a powerful image to supplement the statement. Not only does Heinz distract the viewer with the elements in their advertisement but they also add to their own credibility, implicitly disparaging competitors while asserting themselves as an elite brand. This advertisement shows the importance of how specific words and imagery can change the entire message of an advertisement.  Because words and images can make or break and advertisement or a message that is trying to be explained.
