Ebola has been the most evident in Africa, but recently it has come to America. This unexpected spread of Ebola to our home country has caused a lot of panic and the photo I chose instills this idea even more. Although this particular photo was not taken in America, it still depicts the immense danger of contracting this disease.  It also amplifies the fear of people around the world to have such a detrimental diseases enter their homeland.  In this picture, we see the dirty living conditions that these people face, which makes it more obvious that these people don't stand a chance against such an unstoppable disease. We also see an ominous man in a hazardous waste suit with a young child in his hands.  These are the only two human beings depicted in this site where Ebola is being "treated". It is unclear whether other people are present because it looks deserted and the surroundings look run down. The sense of panic that is instilled by this picture is supported by the uses of contrast, choice of angle, and ambiguity to suggest that eventually the devastation will be so great that we will lose much of the human population.

The contrasts in this photo are crucial to establishing the image's overall mood. The distinction between the dark gloomy outdoors and the man in the bright yellow hazardous waste material suit draws a severe division between those who are infected and those who are clean. The young boy doesn't have any protective gear on and he is not even wearing shoes, which would seem like a good idea to take an initiative for people to wear more protective gear because of the rapid spreading of this disease. The man's bright yellow suit is also in contrast to the boy's dark skin and clothing, furthering the distinctions between healthy and infected. Yet the bright yellow suit may also suggest a ray of sunshine, a sign of hope cutting through the cloudy skies that cover over the landscape. The orange fencing surrounding the perimeter is also a contrast to the gloomy landscape. Presumably, the fencing is where the sickly people line up to enter into the building in the background, but it looks like it was put together last minute and not much time was put into constructing this area meant for refugee and health treatment. This place meant for health aid doesn't seem like a beneficial place at all. It looks rundown and ill-suited to help anyone. Overall, there is a sense up hopelessness for the future to come: with places that look like this, the spread of Ebola seems morbid and inevitable.

From the angle that this photo is presented, it seems as though these two people being shown are the only survivors making it out after the Ebola epidemic was running rampant throughout this area.  We are not able to see if there are other people on the site, so it gives the effect that there is nobody out there left besides these two people. The man looks as though he is carrying the boy away to a safer place, but the young boy seems concerned. The child's head is peering over the shoulder of the man possibly as if he is leaving something behind and his hand is grasping the man's chest, the sense of distress is felt from the use of the straight on angle. Also, everything around the man is blurred out, so the focus is directly on the two people. It is as if the background is not the most important part of the visual story, but the people themselves say it all. You can see the distress they are going through, not only those who are affected by the disease, but also those who are helping other people with treatment. The angle also is directly on the health-worker, it is not below or above, so it makes it seem like this person is coming directly toward the viewer. This is important because it gives a frightening feel to the viewer as if this devastating illness is coming at you and there is no avoiding it.

There is a lot of uncertainty and ambiguity in this photo. We don't know where the young boy is going and whether it's a good thing or a bad thing. We don't know what is in the blue bag the man is carrying along with him. We don't know if the young boy is infected, if his family is infected, or if he is the only one left. We don't know if the epidemic has completely wiped out everyone living in that area. And we don't know what the fate of the world will be once Ebola keeps spreading throughout different countries. Although the health worker might signify a ray of hope, it also has a menacing look to it. Since he is dressed in a suit that covers his whole body and face we don't know what he looks like, which makes the viewer a little uneasy. This picture just sums up the lack of knowledge we have on curing this disease and I think it is meant to make people think about what is to come if it keeps spreading. It is foreboding a bad future for humanity. This picture makes it look like it's the end of the world. Instead of the world ending in a disease that turns us all into zombies, it instead just liquefies our insides until we are dead.

This image is one that shows a state of urgency. The media likes to show pictures that stand out, like this one for example, that shape how the public may view an issue. Photos that depict Ebola like this are showing vivid snap shots ultimately affecting the viewer's perspective. This builds up fears and hype surrounding it. When the public sees such a devastating photo, panic levels increase and crisis level builds up. This photograph depicts the destruction and despair this illness causes.  Various people are recruited to help treat people who suffer from this illness, but many of those people do not survive for long.  It is a type of disease that can devastate a nation because it has such horrendous affects on the human body. This photo portrays all this uneasiness revolving around Ebola by implementing contrast, angle, and uncertainty.
