A tribute years earlier than the 74th Hunger Games turned savage within the arena and ate a dead tribute's heart.  Blood dripping down the face of a young boy, a mangled body lying at his feet, and an animalistic look in the eyes of this boy is a perfect symbol of the dehumanization process that takes place from the Hunger Games.  By looking at the tense argument Katniss has with Peeta on the roof, we can see how Peeta is searching for his identity as a person and how he will act within the arena; which is important, because this scene shows that Peeta Mellark is the true rebel, not Katniss.
	
First off, there lies the question of whether Peeta has given up, accepting death, or maybe there is more to it.  Peeta leads the reader to believe he has completely given up when he says, "I've never been a contender in these Games anyway" (141).  Hopelessness seems to have set in on Peeta as he sees his imminent death approaching.  On the surface it really seems like Peeta is giving up, he even talks about dying as himself, meaning he has accepted death.  Although it seems he has completely given up, if the reader looks closer he/she will see Peeta's true motive.  Peeta knows he will die, because he will protect Katniss and try to help her win.  To Peeta, protecting Katniss is how he will die as himself, it gives his death meaning.  When Peeta says, "[ ] what else am I allowed to care about at this point?" (142), he realizes Katniss is what he should care about at this point.  Peeta's plan to save Katniss is not known to the reader, because the scene is in Katniss's point of view and Katniss always thinks Peeta is scheming and looking for a way to gain advantage over her.  Had it been in Peeta's point of view the reader could see his intentions.  Through Katniss, the reader sees Peeta's remark, "Give my mother my best when you make it back, will you?" (142), as a sign that he has given up all hope of winning.  In all reality though, Peeta is saying that Katniss will live and he will die, because her life is more important than his.  So yes, Peeta has accepted death, but it is a death chosen by him and it will be a noble death.
	
So, how is it rebellious that Peeta is going to die in The Hunger Games?  What difference does it make that he is willing to sacrifice himself?  Peeta is a martyr.  That is why he is rebellious.  The Games are supposed to make each contestant desperate; willing to do anything to survive.  This desperation is what transforms tributes from teenagers to "monsters."  The prime example is Titus of District 6 who Katniss informs us turned cannibalistic in a past Game.  Katniss describes Titus as a "beast tribute."  These adjectives, monster and beast, illustrate the humanity lost when tributes play The Game.  Katniss and Peeta could use adjectives like awful, terrible, scary, or insane, but those words are too human to describe the results of what happens to tributes that play this Game.  Play, is also a key word here.  Every other tribute has played the Game by the rules of the Game so they can win the Game.  Peeta doesn't want to play their Games, "I keep wishing I could think of a way to to show the Capitol they don't own me.  That I'm more than just a piece in their Games" (142).  Peeta's refusal to play the Game the way the Gamemakers want him to play it is rebellion.  The Gamemakers expects him to fight savagely to save his life so their audience gets a good show, and to keep the Districts in their place.  By refusing to be selfish and by dying with honor, Peeta will prove a point to everyone.  His point is that the Capitol does not own him or any other human being within Panem.  Peeta says, "I want to die as myself" (141), meaning he is going to die a free man proving to all District members across Panem that they needn't follow the rules of the Capitol.  Peeta is willing to die for his beliefs.  Peeta Mellark is a martyr.  Peeta Mellark is a rebel.  
	
The girl on fire, Katniss, a symbol of rebellion against the oppressive Capitol.  I think the opposite.  Katniss is a selfish girl who is complying with the Capitol's Game so she can save her life.  She wasn't planning rebellion, it wasn't a thought when she entered the Games, her life was.  Katniss even admits that she is only thinking of herself when Peeta asks if she has been thinking about her family, "'No,' I admit a bit guiltily.   All I can do is wonder about tomorrow'" (141).  The girl on fire simply thinks about how she will fight tomorrow, while the boy with bread plans on how to prove a point to the Capitol.  Katniss even accepts that she will be a piece in the Game, she doesn't look for another way to play.  When Peeta is figuring out how to show everyone he is more than just a piece in the Game, Katniss says, "'But you're not,' I say.   None of us are.  That's how the Games work'" (142).  Katniss just submits to the Capitol, sacrificing any freedom or individuality like the Districts have for years.  On the other hand, Peeta, is a revolutionist fighting for what is right and not submitting to oppression and evil.  Even though Peeta's intentions are honorable and brave, Katniss tries to shoot down his rebellious thoughts.  When Peeta talks about being an individual, a human, Katniss says, "who cares, Peeta?" (142).  Katniss doesn't care about freedom, just survival so she can live in a mundane dystopia for the rest of her life, while Peeta wants to die so that his people will have a happier free life devoid of oppression.  
By looking at the tense argument Katniss has with Peeta on the roof, we can see how Peeta is searching for his identity as a person and how he will act within the arena; which is important, because this scene shows that Peeta Mellark is the true rebel, not Katniss.  All proof shows that Peeta actually wanted to change the world for the better and revolt against Capitol oppression.  Somehow though, Katniss becomes the Mockingjay and the leader of the revolution.  Also, Katniss has to be convinced to be the Mockingjay, because her selfishness makes her want to not have that kind of responsibility.  Katniss is seen as the one who starts it all with the berries, but days before the berries the seed of rebellion is planted with Peeta's decision.  This decision to play by his own rules and die for his beliefs is what makes Peeta the true rebel in The Hunger Games. Peeta Mellark is a game changer.

