Author, Suzanne Collins, and director, Gary Ross, combined together to make the moments after Rue's death into an impactful and truly moving scene.  Both Katniss and District 11 have very interesting reactions to Rue's death that can relate to how the audience feels.  By examining all of the elements that make up this scene of the Hunger Games, we can see that the author and director wanted to make the movie audience into the audience of Panem which is important because it spurs the audience into either wanting to stand up against atrocities like District 11 or change their own terrible views.
  
It is through the use of sounds such as dialogue and music that make the scene impactful and able to make the audience examine themselves.  Music during this scene sets the mood for Katniss with Rue and the riot.  As the scene begins, the music starts low and slowly builds up.  When the music meets its most powerful crescendo, the riot starts, symbolizing that what happened with Rue and Katniss inspired the riot.  The moment was so impactful, that the District 11 viewers were driven to finally go against the oppressive Capitol and Peacekeepers.  As the scene switches to the District 11 riot, the music switches with it.  The music becomes more eerie and unsettling as chaos ensues.  It gives the moment a very serious and aggressive element.  Also, I wanted to test whether the music really did make a difference in the impact of the scene, so I muted the scene and watched it through again.  When the scene is without sound, it is nowhere near as impactful.  I had chills when I watched it with sound, but without it the scene changed dramatically.  I wasn't pulled in as much without music, and this time no chills.  I even watched it another time through with sound again, and here again came the chills.  There really is no true dialogue in this scene, and I believe this was done for a great purpose.  The lack of dialogue makes it more feeling through imagery and music or silence: The lack of dialogue makes us feel more through imagery, music, and silence.  It is so emotional that there is nothing to be said, only actions to be completed and emotions to be felt.  The only dialogue is Katniss whispering "Im sorry" to Rue as she sobs over her little dead body.  This small dialogue makes is the perfect amount, because nothing needs to be said.  Katniss wishes she could save Rue, but ultimately it is the Capitol's fault Rue is dead.

Another element that helps the makers of the movie complete their purpose is the filming of the scene.  The simplicity of different shots really creates an impactful experience by getting us close to the scene, putting us in the scene, and putting us in the seats of Panem audience members.  The usage of close up angles of Katniss holding and crying over Rue shows the true anguish of Katniss and the close relationship Katniss had developed over Rue.  You can read the emotions on Katniss' face, and connect with her emotions.  Connecting with Katniss on an emotional level has been so difficult most of the movie due to her harsh personality, but here you truly do share her sorrow.  The scene has a few high angles that when you stop to think about it, are the cameras that are within the trees in the arena.  Thus we become the audience of the Hunger Games, watching these kids fight for their life and rooting on the characters we like just as Panemians would.  For example, the shot of Katniss holding the three fingers up transitions us to District 11 as they see the same shot on their screen, connecting us with the District 11 audience.  The use of point of view angles creates a great affect to the scene.  Instead of watching the riot from afar, we are in the midst of it.  We are watching people tip over metal containers of grain, break Capitol property, and attack Peacekeepers from the eyes of a person in the riot.  We gain the emotions of the rioters then, and sympathize with them.

The final element that accomplishes the mission of the director and writers is the visual aspects of the scene.  The simple image of a young little girl lying on the ground dead is enough to bring emotions out of any human being.  It is the innocence and purity of children that makes us cringe when those qualities are disrupted or those children are mistreated.  In this scene it is the death of this sweet, pure, young girl that causes her district to riot against the corrupt government that caused her early death.  Just like these rioters, we should continue to be moved by any atrocities upon children, and never let abuse to children go by without a word or action.  Also, the action of this movie is pretty exciting; fighting, chasing, the use of weapons all add to the excitement.  Then a moment like Rue's death happens.  All of sudden, the Hunger Games have become hard to watch, unenjoyable, and infuriating.  How could anyone let a little girl die like this?  These feelings are exactly what this scene should bring out.  We shouldn't enjoy any of the bloodshed, we should be disgusted and against it.  When we watch people rioting and taking to action, it is inspiring.  The rioters have been moved to action, they aren't just sitting around anymore.  So as the audience watches this, they should be inspired to action over what they view is wrong.  If District 11 will oppose an all-powerful government with a sliver of hope of actually changing anything for the better, then so should we.  The riot scene is definitely meant to connect the audience to real life moments, like civil rights protesting.  The Peace Keepers come to District 11 with swat teams and hoses.  As mass chaos ensues the Peace Keepers hose down the district dwellers and beat them back with batons and shields.  The image of civil rights protesters being hosed down and having dogs set on them caused the world to throw up in their mouth a little and then speak out against the brutal acts.  These strong visuals really cause us as an audience to be spurred to action against the evil and sad situations of our own world.

The elements and direction that Suzanne Collins and Gary Ross used and went created the best scene of the movie.  Placing us into the Panem audience and making us feel the emotions of Katniss, District 11, and Capitol viewers was astounding.  The scene varied from the earlier scenes to make this scene noticeable since it is the most important one of the movie.  No other scene can convince us to examine ourselves the way this one did.  In earlier scenes there was really no music and most of the issues were how to look good or stay alive, but this one changed direction quickly.  We become more aware of our own viewpoints and look internally into ourselves as Katniss and District 11 inspire us.  These elements inserted into this scene created an incredible scene that touched much deeper than surface level and was not for shear entertainment.

