In his short story, "Videotape", Don DeLillo uses descriptive language and repetition of certain words to portray his own idea of how valuable and fluctuating our existence is and can be. DeLillo clearly makes the point that at any moment our lives can be ended or completely changed. DeLillo uses the title "Videotape" because in the short story that is what captures the moment of death, and portrays life being taken away within seconds. DeLillo has a valid point and makes you grateful for the life you're currently living. This idea really makes you think, what if tomorrow you didn't wake up?

There are only three characters in this story, which allows the reader to focus on all of them extensively. First we have the young girl, we don't know much about her, besides that she is 12 years old. The reason we don't know much about her is because her identity is being protected: "It is the kids own privacy that is being protected here"(52). Then we have the man in the dodge, we know he is a middle-aged man wearing a sport shirt, driving a medium sized dodge. We know that he is a likeable guy due to the fact that he gave the young girl a small wave before his eventual death. Lastly we have the narrator. We know he is very intrigued with the video due to the fact that he has seen it many times, yet continues to watch it over and over again. He even forces his wife to watch it with him. We know that he is obsessed with the idea of life being so valuable and he wants someone to share his ideas with. But along with the concrete characters DeLillo also leaves the readers with the sense that the videotape is also a type of character. The videotape is arguably the most important aspect of the story, like a protagonist the story is shaped around it.

Throughout the short story DeLillo uses the words "you" and "jostling" many times. There is a set and stone reason behind the repetition of these words. He uses the word "you' so often because he wants to draw you into the story. He wants to make it seem real, just like his theory of life, "it is innocent, it is aimless, it is determined, and it is real"(53). By making the reader feel right beside the narrator, DeLillo is able to get his point across better. By successfully pulling the reader into the story, he is successfully portraying the deeper meaning, his theory of existence. He is painting a deeper picture in that by using the word, "you" so often it makes it personal. DeLillo's frequent use of "jostling" is another use of descriptive language to describe the delicacy of life and how quickly it can change. DeLillo writes, "It is the

Jostled part of your mind, the film that runs through your hotel brain under all the thoughts you know you're thinking"(53). Meaning that behind all your conscious thoughts the film runs through your mind, pondering life and death and how drastically things can change.

DeLillo uses quite a bit of foreshadowing in this short story. On the first page we learn that there is a crime involved, "she is neither the victim nor the perpetrator of the crime"(52). By the third line on the second page we learn that is a homicide, "It is not just another video homicide"(53). DeLillo uses foreshadowing to keep the reader interested and add suspense. He then describes the murder subtly and quickly, almost as if nothing happened. The child keeps on recording, "there is a jolting movement, but she keeps on taping"(54). Although what the child just saw was horrifying she keeps on taping. She is intrigued just like the rest of us over how something can go from being so simple and tranquil, to so dark and gloomy. Once again going back to DeLillo's theory of existence. 

DeLillo's obsession with our fleeting existence is very important to this short story. He makes it clear that living life alone is risky, "this is the risk of existing"(54). To me what makes this idea stand out so much is the simplicity of its setting, an innocent child, a car and a video camera. Three things that at first glance you wouldn't relate to murder. But how it all changes and how quickly it changes makes DeLillo's theory of existence more understandable and relatable. He does a very good job with his foreshadowing and language to get his point across to the readers. A good example is in the first paragraph, " she is neither the victim nor the perpetrator of the crime"(53). In saying this DeLillo is foreshadowing the eventual murder that takes place a couple pages later.

The last line in the short story is a very powerful one and is open to many interpretations. "The horror freezes your soul but this doesn't mean that you want them to stop"(56). My understanding of this line is that although the horror in life may torment you in a way, but it is what keeps you aware of the dangers in life and how quickly life can be taken from you. It you weren't aware of the horrors then people wouldn't be scared or cautious. That is what I feel like this whole short story is depicting. Awful stuff happens in life, bad things to good people. It may be hard to accept but it keeps us aware, it makes us vulnerable, and fear is what keeps us alive. Everything can change in the blink of an eye, "It demonstrates the elemental truth, that every breath you take has two possible endings"(55). This short story makes us aware of the two possible endings, DeLillo is just telling us to make sure we chose the correct ending.


