People across the globe perceive the cultural phenomenon of The Hunger Games in vastly different manners.  There are multiple different views and opinions on how the characters of The Hunger Games should be portrayed in different media, such as the movie.  What stays consistent is how Katniss is portrayed by fans.  There is no shortage of fan art pictures that depict Katniss as a strong and confident individual, while at the same time depicting her as compassionate and empathetic.  In the chosen picture, we can analyze the positioning of Katniss in relation to what is meant to be The Capitol and the flame behind her.  We can also analyze what each of these represent in terms of the revolution; the flame being the people of the districts and the skyline being The Capitol.  This picture shows that Katniss is a bridge between The Capitol and the blaze that trails behind her, and in looking at this "bridge" we can see that Katniss is portrayed as the single determining factor in the revolution; this is important because the people of the districts hang on her every word and action, and what she does will imminently set into motion a chain reaction in the districts.
	
Katniss facing The Capitol represents the strength and confidence that Katniss displays while essentially standing off with a greater power.   This is important in the overall "bridge" scheme in that it clearly emphasizes what side in the revolution that Katniss stands for.  It is also important to notice that she is standing on the edge of what is meant to be The Capitol, symbolizing the time it will take to actually attain access to The Capitol.  It's as if Katniss knows what she wants and is ready to attain it, she just needs the catalyst to catapult her through the barrier.  The people of the districts follow her every action, her every move; therefore, her standing on the barrier between The Capitol and the districts displays the necessity for the people of the districts to also wait for that catalyst alongside Katniss.  
	
Another important aspect of the picture is how Katniss is drawing an arrow from her sheath, while facing The Capitol.  This is a clear statement of her aggression towards the people of The Capitol and how she wishes to overtake them.  It would be a different story had she just been standing there, facing The Capitol.  She would have seemed more compliant and willing to follow orders, but instead the artist depicts her as someone full of aggression and hatred who, in a sense, is willing to fight The Capitol under any circumstances.  This is imperative when considering how much her actions resound upon the people in the districts.  If she draws an arrow, the people will be quick to follow her.  Should she shoot that arrow, the people will follow suit.
  
She looks down upon The Capitol as if it is an obstacle, almost as if The Capitol is the underdog at this point in the revolution.  This is ironic considering how often she, as well as the people of the districts, are placed in the underdog position.  The people of the districts are the ones who have the injustices done to them, not the people of The Capitol.  It is as if Katniss is ready for this to change, to come out on top of The Capitol and dominate them.  Whereas the people of the districts look up to Katniss for leadership, she looks down on The Capitol, ready to fight, ready to revolt.  If Katniss acts like she dominates The Capitol, the people of the districts will also act as if they dominate The Capitol.

The blaze that trails behind Katniss is meant to symbolize the people of the revolution, the people of the districts, and their position in this burgeoning war against The Capitol.  It places Katniss as the people's leader of the revolution as she is the source of the flame and the flame follows her every move as do the people.  The amount of rage and hatred that the people possess for The Capitol can relate to the heat of the fire trailing Katniss.  The darkness behind the flame symbolizes the oppression of the people in the districts by The Capitol, and how that darkness still holds them captive at this point in the series.  The only hope that the oppressed have is Katniss, who leads this flame and who, alone, holds the ability to control it. The hatred in the hearts of these people is either suppressed or set ablaze depending solely on the actions of Katniss, as proven by the positioning and coloring of the blaze attached to Katniss.

Katniss is the bridge between The Capitol and the blaze behind her, and we can see how she is portrayed as the leader in the revolution; this is important because it shows how the people of the districts rely on her to start the revolution.  There is significance behind why she faces The Capitol, is drawing an arrow, and leads a blaze; she is the leader and the picture makes no small attempt at portraying it.  It is clear that Katniss is the focal point and that the fire behind her is the people in the districts, all of whom are facing The Capitol, ready to revolt.  The novel may not specify it at this point in the series, but this picture does a wonderful job of displaying how Katniss is the determining factor in how the war will play out.  It portrays her stand-offish attitude as well as allowing its audience to see that she is fierce and does possess the potential to be a great leader.  This is a concept that, given the opportunity to be portrayed by a fan artist, results in a picture as foreshadowing to the series as this one.

