Visual texts can be very powerful and effective if all of the components of the image are chosen carefully and working in harmony to convey the intended message. Detail is everything in visual texts because the minor choices such as font size and color can make all the difference of whether a visual text is effective or not. In a Crisis Relief advertisement that visualizes the idea of liking and sharing images on social media, it is through angle, words, and the contrast between black and white that the image makes the point that the power society gives to social media really isn't much of a power at all. The seemingly minor components of a visual text are the reason that the viewer receives or doesn't receive the intended overall message conveyed by the image.

The angle of the image creates distance between the child and the viewer. The baby is lower than the viewer and the hands surrounding him. Given that the baby is looking up at the viewer and the hands, it creates a sense of helplessness for the baby. The child also does not have a leg, but only bandages where the leg would be, making him even more helpless. The hands not only surround the child, but also seem to crowd him but instead of caressing or comforting the child, they are giving thumbs up. It is ironic that the hands are giving a sign that usually means approval to acknowledge a child's suffering. From the baby's point of view, he sees no help. He sees no hope for his future. He is surrounded by all of these hands, which represent 'likes', but none of them are aiding him or comforting him.

The words in this image are so influential. The visual consists of three words. Liking isn't helping. Small, white, and so simple, these words work in unison with the image depicted to create a compelling advertisement and message. Also, the structure of the sentence is parallel and balanced, which helps the sentence flow naturally and read smoothly.  The lettering is a smaller size and a simple font, which contrasts with the somewhat hectic image and overwhelming amount of thumbs ups. Also, the period at the end of the sentence creates an interesting effect. It makes the sentence linger and stick with the viewer for long after they see the image because the period makes it powerful. The sentence might not have had the sense of completeness if it did not end with a period. Although a minor detail, the choice of words, punctuation, and font leave a lasting impact on the viewer.

The contrast between the black and white reinforces and even echoes one of the ad's main points. Not only is the image in black and white, but also the races of the people in the image. The black and white emphasizes the dark shadows around the child's face, which could represent the lack of hope the child has. By stripping the color of the image, different details become more important as others fade into the background. For example, the different skin colors are the only colors that seem to matter in the black and white image. The black and white contrast between the African child and the Caucasian hands presents a stronger, deeper issue. It suggests that there are two opposite ends of the spectrum being depicted: the fortunate people who have the means to share and like this picture, and the helpless child who can't even get a clean bandage.

In conclusion, visual texts have the power to convey a strong message without using words or without as many words as actual written text. The image analyzed conveyed a very intense message through the use of angle, color contrast between black and white, and a simple yet moving choice of words. Through these compositional elements, the power of this particular visual text is maximized, leaving a lasting impact on the viewer, which is ultimately the goal of a visual text.
