"YOU'RE PATHETIC!" Harry yelled. "JUST BECAUSE THEY MADE A FOOL OF YOU AT SCHOOL YOU WON'T EVEN LISTEN-" (Pg.361), those are words that must not be told to a teacher, an authority, and an adult. However this law doesn't apply for Hogwarts' students who lack of respect toward teachers. Is clearly showed on this passage I have close read on the Prisoner of Azkaban the word "respect" do not exist in the vocabulary of most Hogwarts' students upon their teachers, which most readers do not notice. The students (children) at Hogwarts are on a higher position than the teachers (adults) with more liberty to commit errors and to be forgiven. However the teachers whom are in continuing observation, are treated differently by the headmaster and are not listened by him as much as the students are. For example, when Snape told Dumbledore about Lupin "I've told the headmaster again and again that you're helping your old friend Black into the castle, Lupin, and here's the proof." (pg.358)
     
Harry Potter, Hermione and Ron do not have the "fear" most students have upon teachers. The capitalization of Harry's words in the book- "YOU'RE PATHETIC!" (pg. 361) , shows a raise in his voice when talking to Snape, one of the most feared and "respected" teachers at Hogwarts, clearly shows how confident Harry is just because Dumbledore is on their side and is fooled by them. Meaning that they won't ever be punished and they can do whatever they feel like doing. However others students at Hogwarts would not confront and raise the voices to a teacher like Harry, Hermione and Ron do; and not all teachers will let them confront them either. This is all because they are privileged. 
     
Harry is no longer the only one who can do whatever he please, Ron and Hermione, his two best friends, have just starting to feel privileged, just because they are Harry's best friends. An example of it is when Hermione convince professor McGonagall to allow her to use the "time turner" when it was something that no student could use, however professor McGonagall did the impossible to help her, just because she is Harry's best friend.
     
On the other hand, we have the teachers, Snape and Lupin, the unprotected, the non-favorites, like I stated before is one of the most "respected" and feared teachers at Hogwarts but for Harry, Hermione and Ron, he is just one of a million, one among the others and what he says or instruct them to do is something they don't take in consideration. Not even Dumbledore listens to Snape's words. Snape who since the beginning didn't trust Lupin - "I've told the headmaster again and again that you're helping your old friend Black into the castle, Lupin, and here's the proof.-"thinking that he will probably listen to his words, but once again this show that Dumbledore doesn't trust or listen to his own staff or doesn't believe at all everything they have to say, is like if what they think or say do not count at all, but if instead of Snape, were Harry, Hermione or Ron the one from whom Dumbledore heard about Lupin the situation would have been different. Dumbledore would have either done something or tell them the reason of why Lupin is trustable. However that was not what happened because instead of a student's word it was a teacher's.
     
Most readers don't notice how students at Hogwarts most of the time don't get punished when they do something they should clearly be punished from (break the rules) and how they influence the headmaster, Dumbledore, most of the time. On the other hand, we have the teachers, and doesn't matter how right they are, or the proofs they have to accuse someone. They definitely are not taken as serious as the students and that is something unusual. 
    
There is no such school like Hogwarts in the world. A school in where students raise their voices to the teachers and not respecting them, without being punished. A school in where students hit, in this case with their wands, teachers without being punished either. A school in where teachers are the ones who control what they say or do to students. We can see by looking at this passage that the students (young) at Hogwarts are above the teachers (adults), and that is something unusual that most readers don't see, this is important because it explain the decisions and actions of most of the students at Hogwarts and most importantly it explains why Harry, Ron and Hermione "keep getting into trouble". All because they know that they will not get punished because they are overprotected by the headmaster, Dumbledore. 
     
This is not something that is just starting at Hogwarts. Even when Snape, Lupin and Sirius were at Hogwarts, students were privileged (some always more than others). For example Lupin and Sirius, almost killed Snape when they all were students at Hogwarts, the two, including Harry's dad, were not punished for what they did instead they were forgiven for their actions. The history would have been different if the word "expelliarmus" had gotten out of Snape's mouth toward Harry, Hermione or Ron instead of them hurting him. He definitely would have been kick out of the school even though he had told them to get out of the way. But it wasn't the case. Ron, Hermione and Harry, were the ones who used the wands against a teacher, who is supposed to be superior and respected by them. But the three friends, knowing that they can do whatever they want without consequences, didn't care about what Snape had to say. They don't listen to anybody but themselves and that's something unusual when talking about the relation between teachers and students (children and adults). We see teachers as our "parents" adults from who we take advices and listen to what they have to say. People from whom we learn about life and in the case of wizards, teachers are their "masters". However is not the case of Harry Hermione and Ron, the only teacher they respect so far is Dumbledore. 
      
By close reading this passage (Chapter 19, 358-361) of Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban, we notice the relation between Hogwarts' students and teachers. No a good teacher-student relation because the teachers are not trusted or respected by the students and vice versa. "Keep Quiet, you stupid girl" (pg. 360) are not the kind of things a teacher will tell his student. Just like words such as "you're pathetic" (pg. 360) should be told to a teacher. 


