In Suzanne Collins's The Hunger Games' movie adaptation, a visual depiction of the novel introduces a totalitarian system in which twenty four victims from the country Panem are sacrificed for the purpose of a televised game of survival. The visual representation of Panem's District 12 allows viewers to witness the struggles the citizens must endure, mostly brought on by the controlling government, which is located in the Capitol. For example, the reaping scene works to form a divide between the capitol and the audience, which is clear to the viewer by things such as the camera placement, sound effects, and plot. The innocent and anxious looks on the children in the audience's faces contrasted with Effie Trinket's eager and boisterous presence creates an intense and almost uncomfortable atmosphere during the reaping scene, this shows us an unequal regime in which even children are sacrificed at the dispense of the all-powerful Capitol; this is important because the emotions of the scene sets a cruel tone for the Capitol and an empathetic one for the tributes.
	
The reaping scene begins with the Capitol representative, Effie Trinket, dressed in a rosy and fashion forward outfit paired with a bold hairstyle, outlandish make up, and a ridiculously large bow on her head, on stage speaking to the dreary and washed out audience. The camera spans across the audience several times, focusing only on Katniss and Gale once. This focus on individual faces in the audience of potential victims creates an emotional bond between them and the viewer, as there is an anxious atmosphere concerning who will be chosen as the tributes. The drastic physical contrast between Effie and the audience is what begins to represent the divide between the Capitol and the districts. Effie has extensive make up and perfectly curled hair, while the children are dressed very modestly as if they were from a past generation and definitely from a different social class than Effie. The cheery tone in her voice compared with the apprehensive and uneasy faces staring back at her builds sympathy for the audience as they are seen as the victims even before a name has been called. The viewer empathizes with the audience because, like them, the movie watcher is just a witness to the reaping- neither has control over what is to come.
	
The sound effects during the reaping scene also build tension between the audience and the Capitol. As Effie is welcoming everyone to the reaping, the pride and strength in her voice is the only thing heard. Then as she makes her way over to the glass to choose the name of the first tribute, her footsteps and her cough to clear her throat build anticipation for the announcement of the tributes. As she moves her hand around the glass, the audience is silent, and she swishes a paper out. Her footsteps are again the only thing heard as she walks back to the microphone and fumbles to uncrumble the slip of paper. All of these sound effects intensify the scene because the audience is waiting patiently and anxiously for the first name to be called, while Effie takes her time and doesn't seem to realize the heaviness of the situation. The cheerfulness in her voice proves her and the Capitol's views differ from those of District 12's because she doesn't comprehend that the Hunger Games are seen as a death sentence for them. The viewer can see the look of fear on the audience's faces coupled with the amusement Effie Trinket has during the reaping and chooses to side with the innocent bystanders.
	
When Primrose's name is called, the camera moves around the crowd and their worn down faces; although no one makes a sound, their eyes tell a story of compassion that a twelve year old is chosen. The camera focuses only on Katniss and Prim's faces, showing disbelief on both. The crowd allowing Prim a path to pass through shows empathy and respect for the tribute. However, the emotional appeal is highest when Prim tucks her shirt back into her skirt, because it reminds the viewer that this is a child that is being sent to her death, one that isn't even used to fending for herself. Heightening the emotions of the scene, Katniss makes her way through the crowd and once she sees Prim, cries out that she volunteers herself as tribute. Replacing her sister as tribute is basically seen as suicide for Katniss, but this surge of emotion is the climax of the scene as Prim is so upset she must be carried away by Gale. This system of support is automatically understood by the viewer because the love Katniss has for her sister runs so deep she is willing to risk her life for her. Combining the genuine and frightened screams from Prim as she is carried away with the calm and collected response of Effie deepens the contrast between the government and those living under their rules and regulations.
	
As Katniss walks towards the stage, obviously scared and vulnerable, the greatest difference between the district and the Capitol is presented. Effie Trinket sees having a volunteer as an exciting turn of events and continues to put on a show for the cameras; however, instead of clapping, the audience signals a sign of respect towards Katniss for her sacrifice. Continuing the reaping with no sign of any deep emotion displays the Capitol's disrespect for human life and their concentration on just providing a show. As the audience appears traumatized, especially Prim and her mother, Effie ignores this and proceeds to call the name of the male tribute, Peeta Mellark, who proceeds to the stage in shock and with his emotions written all over his face. Instead of acknowledging the feelings of the tributes as they are scared to death, Effie genuinely seems excited for the games to begin. The conclusion of the reaping scene leaves the viewer to await the beginning of the games, frightened for the tributes and appalled by the decisions of the Capitol.
	
The emotion presented in the reaping scene in the form of sounds, expressions, and actions heightens the drama and suspense for the viewer; however, the difference of emotions between the Capitol's representatives and the audience of district 12 is vastly different. This suggests the differing mindsets of those in power and those without power. The children at risk during the reaping and the chosen tributes have no control over their future and are scared to death, while Effie is excited for the games to begin. This imbalance of power and equality presented during the reaping validate the idea that the totalitarian government is cruel to their people based on their lack of understanding their point of view and emotions.

