An orphanage is known as a residential institution for the full-time care and education of children with neither parents nor relatives. Places where children live temporary till a family decide to adopt them. But we all know this. However an orphanage is much more than that and through the analysis of this photography it can not only be demonstrated that orphanages are not good for children's care but that they can also have a tremendous impact on children's emotional and behavioral state. And a proof of that is showed on this photographed moment when Dumbledore is introduced to Tom Raider (Voldermort). It shows how unhappy and depressed Tom Raider is on this place through the expression and looks in his eyes. Also Tom Raider's second hand clothes, the room, which looks like a mental hospital's room instead of one of a child and the dry scaly skin, indicate the poor quality of services at the orphanage. This is important because it gives the viewer and idea of what kind of person this child will become just by looking at the way he was treated and the environment he lived on, which is something that most readers do not seem to understand. 

The fact that Tom Raider's body is occupying way more space than the others figures situated in the background of the photograph, when they are the adults who are supposed to represent authority upon children, effects the way we could interpret this scene. If we assume that Tom Riddle is somehow related to the people in the background then the story also changes. But even thought those two figures occupy less space in the photograph than Tom Raider, they still hold our attention. The expression on their faces, perhaps of preoccupation, worry, concern or even fear, indicates an absence in communication and connection between the young and the adult on the orphanages. It shows fear for the new. Leaving what it's familiar for the unknown, new family, can be sometimes a happy time or sad and scary. 
     
Some children are easier to deal with than others. Those children allow changes on their lives and accept it with curiosity and smiles. On the other hand, they are "shy" children like Tom Riddle that are scary of the new. If we suppose that Dumbledore was in Tom Riddle's room to get to know him because he wanted to adopt him. It changes completely the way we could interpret this scene. Only by focusing on the long distance that separates Tom Riddle and Dumbledore, we could argue on the reason of the rejection of Tom Riddle upon Dumbledore. Sometimes children react to the "Unknown" with fear or angry. Orphans take more time to make connections with the "Unknown" or the "new". Because they live in an environment where everything is always the same, the same routine, same schedule, same people, dreams. It's all they know. Not knowing what is beyond could sometimes cause fear. 
    
Riddle's room is lacked of brightness and for being a child's room, that's something unusual. The lack of happiness on this picture is clearly related to the unhappy expression of the figures on it. Tom Riddle's face is lacked of happiness. For being a child like I stated before, that is something very unusual. This image can be interpreted in different ways depending on which perspective we analyze it. If we see the picture from and adult's view, the explanation of Riddle's madness can be explained by something bad he has done and now the adults in the background want him to assume the consequences of his acts. However if the image is analyzed by a child perspective, the story will be different. The reason of Riddle's madness would be because of something that the adults in the background have not let him do. 

All these elements combined create a tense atmosphere between the personages on it. Their body language, postures, facial expression and even the environment contribute to make the viewer feel sorry for Tom Riddle, not only because of the pain reflected on his eyes or the lost on his look. It also makes the viewer feel the separation Tom Riddle is getting from the adults. Orphanages are not good for children and could get a child behavior get worse through the time. Not only because of lack of attention they receive from the "staff" but because of the loneliness they suffer while being in there. People have to become aware of this issue and we all should try to make the orphanages a better place for children. We want kids to be happy and to have good memories that will help them to grow stronger and to have self-esteem. 


