As showcased by The Hunger Games, contradictions appear to be a staple of Suzanne Collins' writing. The plot of the novel is a paradox in itself: a gruesome death match between starving children provides "tasteful" entertainment for the wealthy citizens of The Capitol. Looking deeper into the text, the contrasts between what can be expected and what transpires reveal themselves often, specifically during Katniss Everdeen's interview with Caesar Flickerman. She spends the duration of the scene doing whatever it takes to please the Capitol audience, regardless of how she would behave under regular circumstances. All of the characters contribute to the charade; so much so that the reader almost forgets that Katniss is preparing to be thrown into an arena to be brutally murdered on live TV. By looking at the contrasting interactions of Katniss with Caesar Flickerman and the Gamemakers, as opposed to Katniss with Cinna, we can see the lies and deception that ensure the success of the Capitol's celebration of the Hunger Games. This is important because even though it appears like Katniss is getting swept up by her newfound fame and popularity, she reveals that this is not the case in her subtle strategizing with Cinna and pure honesty regarding her relationship with Prim.
	
In her pre-Hunger Games interview with Caesar Flickerman, Katniss reveals a side of herself that she never has shown to anyone, not even herself. This may lie in the fact that during her dialogue with Caesar, she isn't being completely genuine. She realizes that she has a game to win; and she can't win unless she plays. In order to gain an advantage over her fellow tributes, she must impress the general public of the Capitol. After she charms the audience by twirling around the stage in her fiery dress, she starts giggling, which she claimed she had done "never in my lifetime" (128). This behavior raises the question of whether Katniss has actually softened into this playful teenage girl. The real Katniss Everdeen does not giggle, but she has to make sponsors fall in love and is willing to be whoever they want her to be. Based on her characterization throughout the novel, the reader would not expect her to be corrupted by the Capitol so easily. But, her desire to stay alive overpowers her inclination to stay true to herself. Katniss had previously proven herself to be very honest and never made it a priority to hide how she felt from anyone. The act of deception she displays in this scene with her newfound bubbly personality and light-hearted bantering with Caesar showcases her adaptability to her surroundings. She never truly stops being the headstrong 16-year-old from District 12.
 
Even more so than Katniss, Caesar Flickerman sustains the charade in this passage. As the Capitol spectators select their favorites and become attached to the tributes, it is Caesar's duty to assure their safety. The facade of the Games relies on Flickerman's radiating positivity that can make one believe that all of the kids will return home. Collins chooses her words very carefully when writing Caesar's role as somewhat of a guardian to the tributes. When Katniss nearly falls off the stage after twirling around in her dress, "Caesar wraps a protective arm" around her (128). The use of the word "protective" is ironic because he can't really protect Katniss from the atrocity that awaits her in the arena. This idea is repeated when Caesar reassures the crowd, "She's safe with me" (128). He knows this is not the case but chooses to say it anyway for the sake of the naivety of the crowd. If he reiterates the idea enough, the Capitol viewers will forget that all but one these kids who are so full of life now will be dead by the end of the month. Caesar doesn't forget this and the inner turmoil that he must deal with year after year of laughing along with the doomed tributes during their interviews is unimaginable. But, he never falters and there is never any evidence of guilt or remorse from his character. He can't let these emotions get to him or he wouldn't be able to do his job. Katniss appreciates that "he tries to help you [the tributes] out" (127), in the midst of their interviews. That's all he can really do.
 
Even though Katniss and Caesar are not being completely honest during this scene of the novel, the Gamemakers contribute to the fraudulence of the Hunger Games the most. They are the ones designing the arena that dehumanizes the tributes into practically wild animals. In this scene however, the Gamemakers and tributes poke fun at each other like they're best friends. When Caesar comments on Katniss' training score of eleven, the cameras find them in the crowd "chuckling and nodding" along with Katniss (128).  The reader knows that Katniss angered many of the Gamemakers during her training session with her radical display; but it appears that all has been forgiven and they share a laugh. To keep the residents of the Capitol at peace about the Tributes' inevitable slaughter, the Gamemakers keep up the illusion of an amiable relationship between them. Everyone may be friendly in front of the cameras, but as soon as they enter the Gameroom, the Gamemakers are relentless. The laughter they share makes it easy to forget that they are the ones plotting the most exciting way for Katniss and the other tributes to die.
 
After watching Katniss, Caesar, and the Gamemakers deceive all of Panem on live TV, it's hard to believe that there is any truth left in the Capitol. Cinna, Katniss' assigned stylist and temporary security blanket, is the one person who can bring out the honesty in this scene. Even though it's against her nature, Katniss recognizes the realness in Cinna and trusts him wholeheartedly from the start. His advice to her before she goes on stage is to just be herself (123). He knows this will make her accessible to the audience and have people falling in love with her. They continue to work as a team throughout the scene to make Katniss as appealing as possible to sponsors. Throughout her interview, Katniss looks to him for support and encouragement.  While showing off her dress, Cinna makes "the tiniest circular motion with his finger" that signals Katniss to twirl for the crowd (128). She flawlessly executes his instructions, and the audience reaction is enough to know Cinna is acting in her best interest. They are secretly working together to pull off the pretense. Every action is part of a strategy to keep Katniss alive. This reminds the reader that she never strays from her number one priority of staying alive. The subtlety of their interactions is the main contribution to her success in her interview. She's getting coached from the sidelines to be the perfect tribute. Even at the end of her interview, she looks to Cinna for reassurance and he gives her a subtle thumbs up (129). The confidence that Katniss finds in herself when she looks to Cinna gives the audience a picture of a strong tribute, even though she has never been more nervous in her life.

When Caesar implores about Prim, Katniss is petrified and focuses on Cinna again. He's the only one in the Capitol she would actually want to share her love of Prim with and he knows this, as shown by the deepest sympathy on his face. Remembering what Cinna said earlier, she decides that she should just be honest. The Capitol loves the real emotion displayed by Katniss in this scene. It shows that her motivation from the start has not strayed and that she'll do whatever it takes for Prim's sake. In making this decision, the reader is reassured that Katniss is still herself.

The Hunger Games provides a perfect example of extreme propaganda. Even though most of the outlying Districts don't buy it, the people of the Capitol look past how barbaric the Games are and only see harmless entertainment. The producers of the Hunger Games do a fantastic job at masking the massive heartbreak that accompanies the brutal death of each individual tribute.  It's hard to blame the people of the Capitol because everyone plays a part in hiding the reality of the Games with a harmless appearance. However, they choose to accept the lies and allow themselves to give in to the deception because in their eyes, there is no problem. Even if there were, there isn't anything they can do about it. To Capitol viewers, it is just a game and these kids aren't real. The dehumanization of the tributes when they enter the arena makes it all seem like an insignificant scuffle between robots. It just goes to show how much power the media really has.

