In order to survive the hunger games, a competitor must be strong, smart, resourceful and emotionless with a desire to kill. Katniss Everdeen, the main character in the novel, has created a personality that exemplifies these intense characteristics of a fighter and she portrays that person throughout most of the novel. By looking at the revealing interview scene between Katniss and Ceaser we can see the tough exterior that Katniss has created in order to survive the cruel world created by the capital deteriorate as she spins and "giggles" in her fire dress and truthfully discusses her attachment to Prim; this is important because the interview reveals a motherly and childish personality of Katniss that is foreign to the reader and contradicts the tough unloving demeanor that is needed to survive and win the hunger games.

Katniss is a young girl who was forced to grow up way too early and this is revealed in the interview scene with Ceaser. During the interview scene Ceaser quiets his jovial mood and carefully asks Katniss intimate questions about her relationship with Prim and the moments following the reaping. Katniss's response to the intimate questions asked by Ceaser reveals her motherly and caring attributes.  Katniss still attempts to keep up her emotional barrier and directly answers Ceasers questions about Prim with the response, "Her name's Prim.  She's just twelve. And I love her more than anything." However the straightforward reply by Katniss still gives the reader an insight into the true emotion of Katniss.  The last line where Katniss confesses that she loves Prim more than anything reveals to the reader the maternal nature of Katniss.  A mother loves her child with all her heart and will do anything for her child and that is exactly what Katniss is doing for Prim.  Katniss refused to watch her sister go to the hunger games and immediately volunteered and sacrificed her own life in order that Prim could live.   The next question Ceaser asks in the interview is what Prim asked after the reaping and with much dramatic flare and emotional struggle from Katniss she replies that Prim asked her to try really hard to win. Katniss expands on the answer and informs Ceaser that she swore to Prim that she would win.  Katniss subconciously explains to the reader the emotions that take over her as she answers Ceaser's questions and describes a sensation of icy rigidity take over her body.  This also exemplifies the motherly attribute of Katniss and the maternal instinct to protect one's young.  The three short responses that Katniss gives in response to Ceaser's questions about Prim reveals the protective maternal instinct of Katniss toward Prim and presents a contradictory caring personality to the rigid personality needed to conquer the hunger games.

Although Katniss appears to act more mature than her actual age throughout most of the novel the interview scene reveals a young and innocent Katniss to the reader.  In the beginning of the interview Katniss twirls, jokes, and giggles with Ceaser as he compliments her outfit and begins to ask casual conversation starter questions with her.  Katniss responds to the questions like a young shy girl would and gushes at the flattery and compliments about her dress and appearance as she spins and shows the crowd her dress and thus indirectly her innocence and child-like qualities. The twirling and giggling coming from Katniss shows the reader a naive side of Katniss, a side of Katniss that is almost carefree, a person who isn't worried about the idea that in a matter of days she will be shoved into arena to fight for her life.  The giggles and smile that come from Katniss' usually emotionless face make it seem like she is enjoying the limelight and attention she is attracting just like a young girl would. The line that also describes Ceaser wrapping a protective arm around Katniss because she got too dizzy from spinning expands on the idea that Katniss is still a young child.

Throughout the novel Katniss appears to have the idealistic tough exterior to win the Hunger Games; however, the interview scene between her and Ceaser contradicts the icy rigidity of Katniss.  Katniss was portrayed as a warrior or a hunter throughout most of the novel but now a softer side of Katniss has been introduced.  Katniss is portrayed during the interview as a young innocent girl who was forced to grow up too soon by feeling the desire to care for her sister Prim and the newly acquired task to fight for her life in the Hunger Games.  


