The film The Hunger Games, based off of the best selling novel by Suzanne Collins continues to uphold its stellar reputation with its on-screen debut. There are many elements involved in converting a book to a film. One of the most difficult tasks is deciding which scenes or dialogues to cut without eliminating something important or changing the overall message. Although the director of The Hunger Games, Gary Ross, did cut some scenes that seemed very crucial to the plot, he found creative ways to use sound and visual effects to convey the same message to the audience as the book did to the readers. One very important conversation in the book that was almost completely cut in the film was the conversation when Haymitch explained how much trouble Katniss was in with the capitol for outsmarting the game makers. However the creators of the movie were able to convey the same message through their use of music and visual effects in the final scenes of the movie. By taking a closer look at the different components of the setting, as well as the choice of music used in the final two scenes of The Hunger Games, we can see a relocation of power and development of danger begin to surface in response to the upset that occurred during the games. This is important because it instills a sense of anxiousness and fear in the audience about the events that will follow.
 
One of the major elements in the final scenes of The Hunger Games is the use of contradiction between what the audience expects and what is actually revealed to introduce an inconsistency within the plot. The movie depicts President Snow in the lap of luxury, whether in his garden or public he maintains and air of control with a great sense of ease. His movements and even the pace in which he speaks are reflexive of his leisurely demeanor. His character is the perfect combination of confidence, power and grace. While on the other hand, expect to find Seneca Crane behind the scenes giving commands in the game center. Opposite of President Snow Seneca Crane is characterized by a very flashy personality, always trying to be "on top of the game," expect to find Seneca in the middle of things. Thus, when the setting of the final scene reveals Seneca Crane with a confused expression on his face,  as he is locked in an ornately decorated room, the audience is immediately conscious of an inconsistency in the plot. The shift from a setting fast paced setting surrounded by people and power to a very still and quiet room indicates to the audience that Seneca has been forcibly removed from his seat of power. However the setting alone does not convey a complete understanding of the message being sent.
 
Through the use of visual aids and the effect of music in combination with the actions of the character, the scene allows the audience greater insight about the changes in plot. As Seneca realizes that he is locked in, a look of confusion washes over his face. In collaboration with his eyes as they dart to the side in search of an explanation, a very high note chimes through the low chords. When Seneca ceases to pan the room locking in on an object in front of him, in addition the steadily flowing music grows louder as the screen moves from his face and locks on the bowl of nightlock staring back. At this point the audience realizes that Seneca has not only lost all power, but that he is on the receiving end of a death sentence. The reason behind this subtle indication of death is just as subtle. Because Seneca allowed Katniss to outsmart him by using the threat of death from nightlock, Seneca's own fate follows in suit. Thus, Seneca was the unwitting receiver of a death trap he had created, not knowing he would play the victim in his own game.
 
Contradictions within the setting of the final scene reveal insight into the effect of the berries on President Snow. First glimpse of the setting reveals a surprising twist in the plot. President Snow standing in the middle of the, now empty, game room. No longer sporting the docile manner that went along with an ease in President Snow's demeanor. The calm and confident mannerisms the audience had come to expect were replaced with a burning stare and an anger that can be reflected in his stance. In contrast to the scenes characterized by silence, the music makes an abrupt statement about Snow's change in tone. The change in tone is supported by a change in physical behavior the final second characterized by Snow's abrupt movement as he angrily disappears from the premises.   One is that President Snow must be responsible for the ironic and unmistakably cruel fate that was sure to follow for Seneca Crane. Second was the power that was obviously taken from Seneca had fallen right into the clutches of the man who ordered his kiss of death.
 
Furthermore, the scene introduces a new element for the audience as messages indicating what is, evolve into messages of what will be. The creators of the movie played upon the sense of shock already instilled in the audience when they made use of additional props in the scene to reveal the possibility of what is to come. The idea that Snow is seeking revenge has already been introduced when the puzzle pieces involved in Seneca's fate are put together. As the camera moves from a live TV coverage of Katniss safely returning home from the Hunger Games it reveals the deeply concentrated glare that radiates from President Snows eyes which are glued to the screen. The loud music overcoming the room makes it seem that the concentration on revenge for Katniss is overcoming President Snow. The combination of all of the different elements in this scene indicates to the audience, that for Katniss, what she believes to be the end of her toughest fight ever, could merely be the beginning.
 
This overwhelmingly threatening message that is being sent about Katniss, the main character that everyone has been pulling for, creates a very powerful feeling of fear and anxiousness in the audience. When they finally believe that the person they have been pulling form has made it through, the final two scenes indicate quite the contrary. What makes this message so pivotal for the audience and success of the movie is that it ends with a cliffhanger. 
Only when the elements of the setting are combined with the use of music, does the scene convey a complete message and sense of anxiousness in the audience. Although the music by itself doesn't send a very loud message, when combined with such dynamic elements of a setting, it can completely enhance and direct the messages that are being introduce through visuals. In this case, the music is used to send a very final message. Thus the creators of the film were successful in conveying a very important message to the audience without having to use the dialogue that was necessary in the book.

