In The Hunger Games we can see a struggle between not just morality and immorality, but a power struggle that becomes a common theme throughout the series.  The Careers can represent those who are firm believers in The Capitol or even The Capitol itself, while the rest of the tributes can represent those districts who possess the potential to become rebellious.  This overall power struggle is made apparent when Thresh chooses to spare Katniss's life for the sake of Rue, Thresh's fellow district tribute.  When looking at this particular passage, we can see that there is a strong symbolism of the struggle between The Capitol and its surrounding Districts represented by the struggles first of Clove and Katniss, then Thresh and Katniss; this is imperative to the overall plot of The Hunger Games in that it sets up the foundation for this theme for the rest of the series.
	
Clove and Katniss are struggling for the upper hand, Clove being the one to finally gain it and use this position to her advantage.  What else could this closer symbolize than the way The Capitol governs, or more correctly, dictates its districts?  The Careers, more specifically in this passage, Clove, are a constant reminder of the extreme power and control that The Capitol possesses over the districts and the minute and un-important citizens that belong to said districts.  Katniss can be viewed as one of these citizens, having The Capitol crushing her control and restricting her almost to the point of death.  This portion of the passage is a perfect representation of an absolute dictatorship, when citizens have no choice but to listen to their leader who has complete control of every situation and scenario.  It is obvious that Katniss neither likes nor easily complies with the fact that her ultimate death is upon her, and while she puts up a struggle, it is a futile attempt at what was surely her last hope for living.  This is a common event throughout the districts as previously mentioned in the book; people not wanting to comply with The Capitol's rules and regulations and yet in the end, being forced to do it anyways.
	
Thresh, the big burly young man from district 11, is the solitary reason that Katniss lives, having easily dragged Clove off of Katniss and essentially beating Clove to death.  Thresh is another tribute who is thrown into the games as someone assumed to be a menial place-filler; someone who won't presumably do well but could possibly hold his own, as is every tribute who is not a Career.  This group of tributes can represent the districts and their feelings towards The Capitol, proven when, " Conflicting emotions cross Thresh's face.  He lowers the rock and points at me [Katniss], almost accusingly" (288).   He feels what is surely thankfulness that another tribute saw hope in someone so presumably hopeless as Rue, yet it is also noted that he is almost accusing Katniss for his feelings of morality.  Thresh feels a fellowship with Katniss for what she has done, yet knows that his thankfulness can only go so far in the games, for they must play by the rules.  Katniss even points out that " if Thresh wins, he'll have to go back and face a district that has already broken all the rules to thank me, and he is breaking the rules to thank me, too" (288).  What he has done is the biggest form of rebellion he dares to manage in the games, and it is a significant event when looking at the bigger picture of The Capitol being pitted against The Districts because it represents the apprehensive fellowship that the districts feel when they see The Capitol.  They dare not voice such fellowship against The Capitol in public though, because as Thresh surely felt, it could result in a horrible demise for them with all attempts at rebellion ending in complete failure.  
	
The conflicts witnessed between Clove and Katniss, Katniss and Thresh are the turning points in the novel where the anger felt by the districts is sure to silently escalate into rebellion.  How could one witness such an event as Thresh sparing Katniss's life for the sake of this twelve-year old girl named Rue and not become filled with hatred at what The Capitol has made out of these young adults, Clove, Katniss, Thresh, and Rue alike?  The blame for what is being done is not to be put on the tributes, for they were raised to be objects in The Capitol's games.  It is all that the districts can do to fight back to the fullest extent by sending the bread that Katniss mentions in this passage.  An eerie symbolism we see between the amount of anger that the districts possess and the ability of The Capitol to retaliate to this anger is when Thresh first picks Clove up off of Katniss, he is described as " more massive, more powerful than I [Katniss] even recall" (286).  This in itself foreshadows a rebellion of the districts, and to what magnitude even, that this could occur.  
	
The struggle between The Capitol and The Districts is strongly symbolized in this passage involving the struggles between Clove, Thresh, and Katniss.  We are able to assume that Thresh and Katniss represent the willpower and rebellious attitude of the districts while Clove represents The Capitol; Clove has been overthrown by Thresh, and Katniss saved by Thresh.  This passage is essential when thinking about the recurring theme of The Capitol versus The Districts, set up early in the book, as it foreshadows the doom of The Capitol.  The fire is sparked in this passage, a fire that is sure to burgeon into a blaze throughout the series as the anger of the districts at the immorality expressed by The Capitol escalates to an extreme magnitude. 

