There are many obvious reasons as to why Suzanne Collins' The Hunger Games has rapidly swept across the nation. The basic premise is enough to draw in even the most apathetic of readers. However, a novel idea is not enough to permit books flying off the shelf at such an expeditious pace. What sets The Hunger Games apart from many other novels, are the brilliant levels of complexity that exist within every aspect of the novel. Not only does Collins go into great detail about the world and surroundings, but also about the person that lies within every character she creates. A sequence that reveals the true complexity within the primary character, Katniss Everdeen, takes place as the interactions relating to the feast at the cornucopia begin to unfold. By examining the contradictions and similarities that exist within Katniss' demeanor, we gain immeasurable insight into the truth that underlies her character; this is important because the different levels that exist within basic human instinct and human nature are unfolded.

Anyone that knows of Katniss Everdeen knows she is characterized by her ability to fight, instinct to survive. For the first part of the passage it is abundantly clear that Collins purposefully portrayed Katniss as a survivor. Not many possess the ability run and simultaneously "position [their] next arrow"(284). Yet, when it comes to a character like Katniss, the instinct to survive is a second nature. One could argue that her ability to position an arrow and run simultaneously is merely proof of her ability to hunt.  However, the ability to effortlessly instinct to utilize any means necessary survival. 

Even when death under the blade of a knife seems inevitable, Katniss' will to fight remains unchanged. Immediately switching gears when her physical strength fails her, "as long as we're talking I'm alive. Peeta!"(284) she screams. Katniss uses quick wit in an attempt to outsmart Clove. The ability to maintain intelligence in the face of almost certain death indicates self-discipline and an extreme sense of determination. For Katniss this is a direct effect of her survivalist mentality and obsession with defeating Clove. For most, the failed attempt to outsmart Clove would be the point of complete and utter panic. However, Clove's comments about rue only drive Katniss' will and determination to keep up the fight, "I will stare her down I will not cry out, I will die undefeated"(286). Her fixation on keeping up the fight and making this final act of rebellion is a testament to the rage towards Clove that's driving her instincts. Even though her only means of rebellion are not to scream out in agony when she is stabbed, that one final weapon of defiance allows her to believe in spite of her death, she never accepted defeat. All of the self-control and will to live that Katniss shows demonstrates  survival is her motivation. The fact that Katniss acts solely on her instinct is apparent because she knows her time is limited, the only weapons she has are those that come as second nature. 

It is quite evident that Suzanne Collins portrays Katniss as a person with an immense instinct for survival. Up until this point, any variance that exists between Katniss' human nature and instict is indistinguishable. However, when Katniss' fate unexpectedly falls from the hands of Clove upon Thresh's arrival, her entire sense of control and instinct to fight is lost. In comparison to her interactions with Clove, her interactions with Thresh reveal a deeper part of her character which exists beyond her compulsive instinct to survive, human nature. Throughout her interactions with Clove, Katniss clearly takes advantage of every opportunity she has to fight, both mentally and physically. In contrast, her interactions with Thresh show her relying on what can only be assumed is the true nature  of her character, emotion. maintain
The depth within Katniss character truly begins to unravel upon Thresh's arrival to the Cornucopia. The brief period of interaction between Clove and Thresh is the first indication of a change within Katniss' character. Her seemingly constant survival instinct ceases to exist: as she sits and contemplates whether or not Thresh has gained weight, failing to identify this as the ideal time for an escape. Allowing herself to become so distracted that "When he shouts, [she] jump[s]"(286). She physically displays emotion serves as further verification she is no longer driven by an instinct to survive.

More important than Katniss' lack of instinct is the moment when she allows the true emotional nature of her character to shine through. What may be the most surprising sentence of the passage, "Tears spring in my eyes," (288) gives way to the emotions that outshine Katniss' tough survivalist exterior. It is apparent to the reader that Katniss has lost her grip when she explains her overflow of emotions, "I'm overwhelmed by Rue, the pain in my head, and my fear of Thresh" (288). The line alone gives proof of the immense change that has taken place in Katniss' demeanor since her interaction with Clove. Logically, the reader would expect Katniss' last interaction with Clove to be the one to cause an emotional outpour. In addition to Rue's death, Clove also brought up Peeta and threw the knife causing the pain in her head. However, the underlying cause goes beyond logic and touches on basic human nature. When Thresh saved Katniss from what she felt certain would be her fate, she was stripped of her instinct and left with nothing but her basic human nature. This basic human nature explains why Katniss was overcome with such an overflow of emotions.  The shock Katniss experienced was so drastic that it interrupted the concentration of her entire survivalist mindset, leaving her with nothing to hold her guard up. The final indication Collins gives us of Katniss' instability comes from Katniss herself. As she is leaving the scene that she felt sure she would never come out of alive Katniss describes herself as, "fleeing like the wild, wounded creature I am"(289). This line is so pivotal because Katniss feels so far from herself she is able to her own admit defeat. Something that she was previously much too proud to admit. 

Emotions are a basic part of all human nature, Collins makes it apparent that Katniss allows her emotions to get the best of her. Initially, Katniss' will to survive allowed her to channel those emotions in a constructive way. Collins showed us that Katniss was a character who had grown to expect to struggle and to have to fight for survival. Therefore, fighting came as a basic instinct for her. On the contrary, one thing Katniss did not expect was for her life to be saved by another tribute. Clearly Collins wanted the readers to realize that what unsettled Katniss was her disbelief that she was alive. This instance enabled Collins to reveal so much insight into the emotional side of Katniss' character, allowing her to be someone that the readers could relate to. Ultimately the message is that there are many levels that exist within every person. When it comes down to it, the one thing all humans share is emotion.

