An orphanage is known as a residential institution for the full-time care and education of children with neither parents nor relatives. Places where children live temporary till a family decide to adopt them. But we all know this. However an orphanage is much more than that and through the analysis of this photography it can be not only demonstrated that orphanages are not good for children's care but that they can also have a tremendous impact on children's emotional and behavioral state. And a proof of that is showed on this photographed moment when Dumbledore is introduced to Tom Riddle (Voldemort). It shows how unhappy and depressed Tom Riddle is on this place through the expression and looks on his eyes. Also Tom Riddle's second hand clothes, the room, which looks like a mental hospital's room instead of one of a child and the dry scaly skin, contribute at the poor quality of services at the orphanage. 

The fact that Tom Riddle's body is occupying way more space than the others figures situated in the background of the photograph, when they are the adults whom were suppose to represent authority upon children, effects the way we could interpret this scene. If we assume that Tom Riddle is somehow related to the people in the background then the story also changes. But even thought those two figures occupy less space in the photograph than Tom Riddle, they still hold our attention. The expression on their faces, perhaps of preoccupation, worry, concern or even fear, indicates a absence in communication and connection between the young and the adult on the orphanages. It shows fear for the new. Leaving what it's familiar for the unknown, new family, can be sometimes a happy time or sad and scary. 
Some children are easier to deal with than others. Those children who are easy-going allow changes on their lives and accept it with curiosity and smiles. On the other hand, they are the "shy" children like Tom Riddle that are scary of the new. If we suppose that Dumbledore was in Tom Riddle's room to get to know him because he wanted to adopt him. It changes completely the way we could interpret this scene. Only by focusing on the long distance that separates Tom Riddle and Dumbledore, we could argue on the reason of the rejection of Tom Riddle upon Dumbledore. Sometimes children react to the "Unknown" with fear or angry. Orphans take more time to make connections with the "Unknown" or the "new". Because they live in an environment where everything is always the same, the same routine, same schedule, same people, dreams. Not knowing what is beyond could sometimes cause fear. 

Many children who live in an orphanage have fewer opportunities to develop or learn how to interact with adults either by emotions or by talking. This can affect them later on when they leave the orphanage or when they get adopted. Even when they are adopted, there may be fewer good memories of the time when they were in the institution. We all know that orphanages are not as bright and happy as the day-care center where you can easily leave your child for the day, few hours or weekly knowing that they will take good care of him. But what if orphanages could be as cheery and with the same well-prepared staff as the day-care center? Wouldn't it make the orphans happy and provide them with good memories? That would help them to ignore or completely forget the sad and hurtful times of their past. 
     
All these elements combined create a tense atmosphere between the personages on it. Their body language, postures, facial expression and even the environment contribute to make the viewer feel sorry for Tom Riddle, not only because of the pain reflected on his eyes or the lost on his look but mainly because of his loneliness and separation from the adult that are on the background of the photograph, . Orphanages are not good for children's care and could get a child behavior get worse through time. Not only because of lack of attention they receive from the "staff" but because of the loneliness they feel while being in there. People have to become aware of this issue and we all should try to make the orphanages a better place for children. We want kids to be happy and to have good memories that will help them to grow stronger and to have self-esteem. 


