In "The Facts in the Case of M. Valdemar", Edgar Allen Poe attempts to combat the very notion that death is an inevitability that we all must eventually accept. Poe's exuberant use of description in the short story helps to develop and enforce a sense of realism to us as readers, which would have been even more so to the readers of the mid to late 1800s. The sense of realism Poe establishes in the beginning is complimented by his extensive medical knowledge which helps to enforce credibility. Contrasting this careful and meticulous use of diction, Poe shocks the readers with an unexpected yet horrifying emotional ending with Valdemar's death. By building up such strong credibility and realism, Poe did exactly what he set out to do: provide a scenario in which death, the unavoidable, can be avoided. And after spending the time gaining our trust, he twists it and uses it to his own advantage, actually surprising us when the originally expected happens, and Valdemar dies.

The narrator, who we know only as P., begins by expressing it is "necessary" that he "give the facts" of the events that unfolded to his colleague M. Valdemar. By taking the time to mention that these are "his" facts, Poe insinuates further upon his views made in the opening paragraph that others are making falsified representations of what truly occurred to Valdemar.  Even more so, Poe uses complex terms such as "articulo mortis" and "phthisis" to help develop his narrator's credibility, and establish his expertise. By presenting the narrator as working with and even being knowledgeable in the medical field, it also presents and promotes an edge of realism to us as readers. In this way, Poe is presenting and defining his knowledge as unquestionable, as definitive "fact". And ultimately, by giving this sense of realism in the beginning, Poe establishes a sense of credibility and authenticity that helps draw us farther into the short story. Thus helping to create and maintain an emotional connection to the reader, which is played upon later in the short story. 

Valdemar's condition at the time is considered terminal. By presenting the disease as incurable, Poe creates a humanistic connection via emotion that further builds upon the previously established credibility and realism. In a way, we as humans value life, and Poe uses this to his advantage to help create a connection to Valdemar as readers. No human wants to see another human die, especially in a position where they have no "chance" at survival. By creating this connection, it sets Poe in a position to surprise and even shock the reader with the conclusion.

Having hooked the reader emotionally while at the same time gaining credibility, Poe commences his "mesmerism" of Valdemar. The process was long, complex and drawn out which continues the trend of trying to persuade the reader of plausibility and adds to the element of realism. Likewise, it gives Poe another opportunity to show that the narrator knows what he is doing. Don't we all prefer someone who's an expert? Someone who knows what they're doing and exhibits confidence? 

Leading up until this point, Poe has used numerous methods to boost his credibility and create emotions that help draw us as readers further into his gothic world of life versus death. In a way, Valdemar's transformation from living to a semi-unconscious mesmerized state is a turning point. Throughout the short story, Poe has continued to provide us with what he calls "facts" to further both the realism of the situation and his credibility. Now, these "facts" are being undermined in what many would call an "unexplainable" circumstance. How would someone who has a terminal illness still be considered medically alive after being simply "mesmerized"? The narrator's knowledgeable, nonchalant answers have turned into indescribable silence.

These indescribable circumstances continue while at the same time start to provide us as readers with a sense of uneasiness. Poe's true gothic form and nature start to shine as shown when Valdemar starts to be questioned. For example, when questioned if he is asleep, Valdemar responds "faintly and almost inaudibly, Yes; still asleep-dying", which makes one of the first connections between Valdemar's sleeping state and death. As Valdemar falls deeper and deeper into his death like trance, his responses become more erratic while at the same time tend to indicate a sense of suffering, which contrasts the original purpose of mesmerizing Valdemar; to ease him of his pain and to save him from death itself.

At this point, Poe suddenly converts the unease of the reader into pure shock and awe as Valdemar is released from his "mesmeric" state. His body quickly turns to a "liquid mass of loathsome-of detestable putrescence". At this point, the narrators seven month struggle to save Valdemar fails, and with it, we make a critical realization that leads to what may be considered the main point Poe intended to convey from the beginning; death is an inevitability that no one can escape. 

Poe ultimately starts by gaining both credibility and creating a situation which supports a certain sense of realism. By doing these things, it grants Poe the element of surprise while at the same time creating an emotional connection with the audience of readers. We, as readers start to actually "believe" that Valdemar can be saved, and this little spark starts a fire. It gives us hope. Then, using this emotional connection previously established, Poe uses the sudden surprise of a grotesque and utterly disgusting death to drive home the fact that death is in actuality impossible to avoid. Anyone and everyone must die eventually. No medical or mesmeric form of treatment can save a person from death. As quoted from Poe himself, "The boundaries which divide Life from Death are at best shadowy and vague. Who shall say where the one ends, and where the other begins?" Who are we to play God and decide who lives and who dies?


