The poster chosen to advertise the 2012 blockbuster hit The Dark Knight, a continuation of the Batman saga, consists of numerous special effects that are designed to draw in the viewer to see the movie. The background featuring a crumbling building surrounded by dark clouds of smoke and centered in the building the Batman symbol burning in flames. Below the building stands a very confident Batman dressed in all black armor, while above the building is the sentence, "Welcome to world without rules". As an outside viewer with no previous knowledge of the storyline of Batman one could easily make the assumption from this poster that Batman is not the hero but the villain in the film. Every design element of the poster indicates that Batman is the source of the chaos occurring behind him. The idea that Batman has changed into a more violent and frightening character is meant to confuse the viewer and make them seek the truth behind the poster and whether or not Batman is the hero.

The artist sets up the poster with a specific angle that points upward towards Batman forming a sense for the viewer of being "looked down upon". Immediately the viewer is able to comprehend that Batman is in control of the city and everyone else is beneath him. This creates much irony because the overall point of having a "hero" is that he or she is one with the people and is just like them. Heroes are not meant to frighten the public or make them feel belittled, however, this specific angle forms a sort of condescending attitude towards the people from Batman. The purpose of this certain angle is to make the audience question whether or not Batman is the true hero or if he is doing more damage than he is solving.  In order for the audience to figure out the answer they have to see the film, which is solely the main goal of the advertiser. The artist continues with this question of whether or not Batman is good or evil throughout the entire image with other techniques they present in the poster.

In previous Batman movies the infamous symbol of the bat is used to contact him when the city is in need of his help, normally shined throughout the sky from a light atop a building. What's different in this poster from others is that the symbol is burning in the middle of the building as if it were destroying it.  If the original meaning behind the bat symbol is to make the city aware that Batman is coming to save the day, then why is the symbol destroying a part of the city? This is another feature that builds irony for the viewer and creates a conflict in their mind of what the true character of Batman is. The most obvious attempt by the artist to form a questionable opinion of the hero is the sentence above the crumbling building, "Welcome to a world without rules". For a city to be safe and protected all must follow the rules and the rules have to be enforced by a higher power such as a hero and in this case, Batman. The image portrays Batman as if he is the one causing the chaos behind him and like he is not following the rules that he should be enforcing to keep the city safe. Again forcing the viewer to make the decision of whether Batman has become a villain rather than a hero.

The entire overall appearance of the poster completely depletes any form of heroism that Batman may possess. The city of Gotham that stands behind him in the image does not capture or represent the good Batman has done previously for the city. Fans and viewers of prior films view this poster and see that Batman has changed in a way that will effect the outcome of the city ultimately drawing them into theaters to figure out if Batman is truly a heroic character or if his legacy is over. The usage of irony and symbolism throughout the poster is what creates the overall message and question that can only be answered if the viewer of the image goes and sees the film. Accomplishing the main goal of the artist and advertisers of producing a visual image that captures the attention of all viewers.
