In Suzanne Collins's The Hunger Games, certain rules of the powerful Capitol are often overlooked in District 12, such as hunting and betting; however, the annual Hunger Games represents the harsh power the Capitol possesses over Panem's inhabitants. The male and female tributes from each district must risk their lives for sport to prove to the Capitol they are totally at their mercy. During Katniss's individual skills session, prior to the Hunger Games, she manages to undermine the power of the gamemakers and therefore the Capitol by letting her anger control her actions and shooting at the gamemakers for their lack of interest. Katniss's infatuation with the capitol's weapons and her pride in her shooting contrasted with her outrage against the capitol's disrespect for human life shows Katniss following the rules yet challenging the system; this is important because it reveals the complicated human nature of sacrifice for the goal of survival. 
	
Collins uses weapons as representation of strength and control, and Katniss's excitement over the Capitol's impressive bow and arrow overrides her disapproval of the overall purpose the weapons have- to partake in the training of the Hunger Games. In the moment, she lets her emotions control her mind much like she did dressing up for the opening ceremonies. Using the exclamation point in, "Oh, the weapons! (Collins 100)" seems to refer to the weapons, which are used to train for murder in the games, as toys. However, there was also a plan set in place that Katniss would impress the gamemakers with her shooting skills, so although she realizes the inhumanity of the Hunger Games, she is willing to follow the Capitol's rules and use their weapons as practice. Although she's in the Capitol's game and has her rights stripped of her, Katniss is wrapped up in the thought of showing off her strength in order to get ahead. Allowing herself to become somewhat comfortable in the Capitol is vital for Katniss's overall survival in the games; this contradiction between what Katniss believes and is forced to do is brought on by the unbalance of power between the people and the capitol.
	
Katniss's annoyance at the gamemakers who are more interested in the roasted pig than her performance in her skills session is an example of her dissonance with the Capitol's disregard of human life. Her reaction to their indecency sets the tone for the second half of the passage. It's as if Katniss suddenly woke up from the spell of the weapons and impressing the gamemakers; she decided to fight for her life in another way. Her angry and rebellious act towards the gamemakers represents far more than her disagreement with the process of the skills session and the gamemaker's rudeness towards her, it shows her true feelings towards the shallowness of the Capitol. Katniss states she is furious by their offensive dismissal of her; showing this type of emotion towards the all powerful Capitol tells the reader that Katniss is short tempered, has rebellious tendencies, and demands attention. This single act provides the reader with more information about Katniss on a deeper level than direct characterization could; however, these characteristics don't coincide with what the Capitol expects a tribute to be like. Going against the Capitol's anticipations sets Katniss apart, but this could hurt her chances of survival in the games if the Capitol feels threatened. 
	
At the peak of Katniss's anger she says "my heart starts to pound", "my face burning" and "my quiver" (Collins 101-102). These descriptions add a sense of emotion to the passage and bring the character of Katniss to life; she is no longer following the rules set by the gamemakers and the Capitol. Instead, she's literally fighting for her right to live. She shot her arrow across the room and into the mouth of the dead pig that was the fascination of the gamemaker's attention. The dramatics of this scene prove that Katniss is infuriated with the disrespect the gamemaker's have for her fight for life and the importance they place only on things that satisfy or entertain them. The roasted pig is feeding the gamemaker's attention just like the horrible games provide amusement for the people in the Capitol and Katniss is fed-up. There is a connection in the fact that Katniss strips the gamemakers of their meal just like the Capitol takes away the tributes' right for food in the Hunger Games. The disbelief the gamemakers have towards Katniss's revenge towards them is hypocritical since they condone a system in which a group of citizens' human rights are taken from them in order for one to survive.
	
The idea of human survival coincides with what one is willing to sacrifice. In the Hunger Games, tributes are forced to surrender their rights and their freedom to fight for their life and the eventual death of 23 others. Although Katniss is in the Capitol coinciding with their rules and traditions, she proves in this passage she doesn't agree with the system the Capitol puts forth. The one-dimensional and superficial viewpoint of those in charge doesn't represent the feelings of all the districts or all those who struggle to live. Shooting her arrow at the gamemaker's table and ripping their meal from their eyes proves that Katniss is not willing to sacrifice her beliefs in order to play a game set forth by the Capitol; she goes along with preparing for the games, but she obviously continues to stick up for what she sees as right. Katniss was willing to sacrifice her life for her sister's, but when it comes to the Capitol she's fighting with her life on the line in her own way, proving to be a fearless and extraordinary competitor, not only against the other tributes, but the Capitol as well.

