People across the globe perceive the cultural phenomenon of The Hunger Games in vastly different manners.  There are multiple different views and opinions on how the characters of The Hunger Games should be portrayed in different media, such as the movie.  What stays consistent is how Katniss is portrayed by fans.  There are a vast array of fan art pictures that depict Katniss as a strong and confident individual, while also depicting her as compassionate and empathetic.  There is one particular picture that show Katniss as a sort of bridge between The Capitol and a burgeoning blaze that trails behind her, and in looking at this "bridge" we can see that Katniss is portrayed as the single determining factor in how out of hand or in control this fire becomes or stays; this is important because Katniss is, indeed, the one person who can determine how far this fire gets in terms of revolution against The Capitol.
	
The significance of Katniss facing The Capitol is not to be overlooked, because it is a statement that Katniss is "facing off" with The Capitol.   This is important in the overall scheme of Katniss being the bridge between revolution and normality between The Capitol and the districts in that it shows what side she is standing for.  It is also important to notice that she is standing on the edge of what is mean to be The Capitol, symbolizing how she is not quite to the point where she wants to revolt wholeheartedly against The Capitol.  When remembering how the people of the districts follow her every action, we can see that this position of Katniss on the edge of what is surely meant to be the separation between The Capitol and the districts is a sort of sign to the people of the revolution that they must hold off.  
	
Another important aspect of the picture is how Katniss is drawing an arrow from her sheath, while facing The Capitol.  What could this more closely symbolize than her aggression towards the people of The Capitol and how she wishes to take them down?  It would be a different story had she just been standing there, facing The Capitol.  She would have seemed more compliant and willing to follow orders, but instead the artist depicts her as someone full of aggression and hatred who, in a sense, is willing to fight The Capitol under any circumstances.  This is imperative when considering how much her actions resound upon the people in the districts.  If she draws an arrow, the people will be quick to follow her.  Should she shoot that arrow, the people will follow suit.
  
She looks down upon The Capitol as if it is an obstacle on her way to freedom, almost as if The Capitol is the underdog in this revolution.  This is ironic considering how often she, as well as the people of the districts, are placed in the underdog position.  These people are the ones who have the injustices done to them, not the other way around.  It's as if Katniss is ready for this to change, to come out on top of The Capitol and dominate them.  Whereas the people of the districts look up to Katniss for leadership, she looks down on The Capitol, ready to fight, ready to revolt.  There is no other explanation for why Katniss is above The Capitol looking down upon them in a demeaning manner.  

The blaze that trails behind Katniss is meant to symbolize the people of the revolution and their position in this burgeoning war against The Capitol.  It places Katniss as the people's leader of the revolution as she is the source of the flame and the flame follows her every move as do the people.  The flame is bright, as are the people of the districts with fire and rage against The Capitol for the injustices done to them.  The darkness behind the flame symbolizes the oppression of the people in the districts by The Capitol, and how that darkness still holds them captive at this point in the story.  The only hope that the oppressed have is Katniss, who leads this flame and who aims it towards The Capitol.  The hatred in the hearts of these people is either suppressed or set ablaze depending solely on the actions of Katniss, as proven by the positioning and coloring of the blaze attached to Katniss.

Katniss acts as the bridge and gate between revolution and normalcy in this picture, proven by her position in the picture in addition to the blaze she leads and controls; the symbolism of the fire representing the districts is important when considering that Katniss acts as the sole leader and controller of this blaze; she is the gate that determines whether this becomes a revolution, or remains normal.  The series itself does a decent job of portraying Katniss as the leader of the revolution, but what this fan art does is emphasize the extent to which she controls the revolution, even from the beginning.  Her every action is closely analyzed by the people of the districts and interpreted as a direct attack against The Capitol, no matter Katniss's true intentions.  It eventually gets to the point where Katniss becomes aware of, and embraces this role of leader and takes charge.  The fan art simply emphasizes this concept in that it directly places her and the districts as one force and unity against The Capitol.  Katniss is the source of the blaze, the leader of the flame that will become the revolution; she will accomplish what she wishes to achieve through any means possible, because the aggression and ferocity that she holds in her heart against The Capitol is amplified by the people of the districts who place all faith in her.

