September 11, 2001 will always be an infamous day in American history.  Because it was the most fatal attack on U.S. soil since the attacks on Pearl Harbor during World War II, the day produced numerous images and lasting memories that will haunt all Americans for the rest of our lives. However, of all those images of disaster, terror, and destruction there is one picture that is more memorable for being symbolic of hope, overcoming great obstacles, and how the people of our country are a resilient bunch that can get up when knocked down, dust ourselves off, and continue living our lives the way our country's founders and the great people who built it intended.
The image of three firemen covered in the dust and residue from the rubble and destruction raising an American flag at Ground Zero on a bent and crooked flag pole always resonates when thinking of that terrible day. The photo is simple, it's just three guys raising a flag, but it means so much more.  In the background of the image and all around the firemen is destruction, rubble, dust, rocks, etc. Their suits and faces are covered in dirt and dust from the disaster.

The simple yet unique American flag is slowly being raised up the broken flag pole. Somehow the image of these men, who were probably tired and exhausted from working is so powerful.  Whether you're an American or not this picture gives people hope and faith to the American people. In a way the picture is very similar to the image of the American soldiers raising the American flag on the Island of Iwo Jima during World War II in the sense that it brings pride and hope to Americans who see it.

The flag being raised, the firefighters looking up towards the sky while raising it and the contrast of the grey and brown debris all around to the bright red and blue of the American flag makes this such an amazing picture. Photography is capturing a moment and this photo probably captures the 'moment' better than any others that were taken on that day.

The picture to me personally is this triumphant and extremely optimistic and I think that's what the photographer was trying to capture in the image. The country had just taken a huge blow. There was so many feelings of terror or of being in danger.  However this photo gave life to the resiliency that is the spirit of America.
The American people were deflated.  The tallest buildings in the world had been taken down in a matter of hours and it was so unexpected and terrifying for everyone across the country. Despite all of that the country rallied together and dusted off the dirt and got back up even stronger. This photo is rare in that it has more meaning.

These firefighters were just three of the thousands of heroes that were made on that day. Their bravery in the face of imminent danger inspired anyone who listened to their stories from their experiences on that day.  The courageous men raising the flag gives me that same courage because they are regular Americans doing their job.  It gives hope that if these men can overcome the obstacles and be able to raise that flag (metaphorically raising the country up) that any of us can. 
If someone understands the context and the setting of the picture, it becomes a powerful and moving peace of art that represents something bigger than itself. I think that's why this picture is so memorable and recognizable not only in the United States of America but across the world as well. The context of the picture and the setting add importance to the significance of the events on that day and make this moment seem important due to the gravity of the situation. The emotions of seriousness captured on the firefighters' faces provoke hope and courage in the face of imminent danger. And the contrast of colors highlight the flags bold colors and forces the flag to become a symbol for the resiliency of the American people.
