The media has recently paid a lot of attention to women specifically, protesting all aspects of rape and rape culture which is exemplified in both photographs. Both photographers used the subject of the photographs to illustrate perfectly the pain, hurt, and anger driving the protestors.  Arguments are raised regarding women's clothing provoking a man, the idea that women cannot be heavily intoxicated without expecting a man to force himself upon her, the idea that women need to watch how they act so they don't  mislead a man into thinking a smile means "yes" for intercourse, and many other unfair and sexist arguments that are all equally offensive. With so many different aspects and subcategories of rape culture, it is seemingly impossible to catch the drive, passion, and frustration of those fighting this issue in a simple photograph. The purpose of both photographs is to convince the viewer that women are not at fault for their own rape and our greatest stress can no longer be what the women are doing to get themselves assaulted.  The purpose of the advertisement and others alike is to impact the viewers and  express the feelings of protestors often in shocking ways, for example, how one women is topless. For a photographer to successfully illustrate the passion driving those protesting,  there has to be a large amount of visual elements used in order to create the strongest possible photograph. With both photographers use of focus, timing, color, shock factor, and lines of symmetry, the pictures not speak to the viewer, but stand out from other pictures taken due to the strength created by the combination of these visual elements.

Both photographers did an amazing job at taking the photographs in such a precise manor.  Both photos use light as a very important fixture that sets the mood. In the first picture, there is a lot of dark contrast used.  It almost seems like there is some sort of blue tint to the picture which contrasted very well with the white background of the sign as well as the skin pigment of the subject.  You can also vaguely see the use of symmetry and balance.  Behind the subject, there are the straight lines of the window panels, brick walls, and even the top of the truck.  Something more moving about the photograph is that everyone in the picture besides the main subject seems to be walking along paying no mind.  If the fact that the woman was topless wasn't enough to draw the attention of the viewer, the fact that she is the only one looking at the camera attracts attention as well.  The pedestrians in the background and the topless subject easily demonstrate the connotations regarding women.  At a first glance, you see random civilians walking and right smack in the middle of it all, there is a woman in a bra, holding up a sign.  The woman looks promiscuous for the obvious reason that she is topless.  The radicalness of the photograph perfectly illustrates the fight for all victims of sexual assault and the fact that their clothing does not justify a mans actions.  If the photographer did not grasp such a radical image, it would not have been such as strong of a photograph.  It would not illustrate the passion people have regarding this subject.

This might be far fetched but it could be argued that the photograph also demonstrates the humility of the process of not only sexual assault but reporting it as well.  This woman is almost nude, standing in a large crowed, holding a sign saying "It wasn't MY FAULT".  She is on display for not only the area where this took place but now the entire world. The purpose of this photograph is to draw attention to the hysteria regarding women being blamed for their own sexual assault.  Again, what a woman is wearing, does not justify what can be done to her body without her consent. The use of dreary lighting, focal point, and shock factor have all aided in not only attracting attention to the cause, but symbolizing what these women go through afterward mentally and emotionally.

Similar to the first picture, the second photo is of a woman walking through a protest called "The Slut Walk",  where men and women walk in protest of sexual acts of violence.   The second photographs use contrast works very well in setting a mood for the picture. The stress of dark colors in the picture contrast perfectly with the subject of the photo and the sign she is holding.  Again, similar to the first picture, the blurred background of the photo also sets an important focus on the subject.  The focus of the subject in the picture and the blurred background symbolizes the victims feeling of aloneness and frustration during the entire process of assault, reporting, legal processes, and trying to regain mental stability after all of these occurrences.  Her pale skin and shaved head give the allusion that she is bare and open for the world to see and judge, similar to the first photograph.  During an examination of the picture, you can see the frustration in the subjects face and you can almost feel the passion she has towards the topic.  She seems to exemplify the aggravation and rebellious attitude of those who protest these unjust inclinations.  The set and mood of the photograph as well as the visual passion in the subjects face does a great job at representing the topic she is objecting.

In both instances, the main subjects of the photograph exude passion and determination.  The photographers executed the meaning behind the pictures perfectly with their use of contrast, shadowing and line work,  focal point, and most importantly, shock factor.  The use of these visual elements do an amazing job at speaking to the audience not with words but with the feelings of the viewer that these photographs appeal to. It is not known if these photographers just got lucky with these shots, but these pictures alone symbolize everything that these men and women are fighting for and against.  Ultimately, the meaning behind the photos capture well the perceptions about sexual assault that these women are challenging  and do an exceptional job of drawing in the viewer to agree with the cases made.
