It has almost become commonplace to depict the villain of any narrative as ugly. Ugly and evil are seemingly synonymous when choosing the prototypical antagonist. Countless examples abound from even the most elementary childhood fairy tales such as The Wizard of Oz's Wicked Witch of the West, to more advanced pieces of literature such as the Harry Potter series. It is true that even the acclaimed novelist herself J.K. Rowling resorted to this tactic when she unearthed a truly wicked villain -- Lord Voldemort. Described as an evil, hideous being, even the characters of the novels shudder when forced to recall his name. But, as it is with almost every case, there are exceptions to this rule. One such exception is found in the Harry Potter series in the form of Sirius Black: a mangy character with a mop of greasy hair the color of coal on his head who is perpetually donned in tattered scraps of clothing, Black gives every reason to judge him as evil based on appearance alone. However, Sirius Black's appearance is in direct contrast with his innermost emotions. In fact, it could be argued that there is no figure within the Harry Potter series who cares more for Harry's well-being, yet is also a figure who is severely misunderstood when judging by appearance alone. Within this particular picture, one can observe that unlike previous movie posters in which Harry Potter is the clear focus, this Prisoner of Azkaban poster places the emphasis on Sirius Black with the use of shadows and lighting; this is significant because it highlights the protective and caring qualities that Sirius possesses that directly belie his appearance.
	
It would be exceedingly easy for the everyday viewer to see this poster and vote Harry as the primary focus; however, this could not be further from the truth. The aspect that makes this picture unique unto itself is the use of lighting and shadows. Unlike previous movie posters, this one lends itself to a darker, more menacing ambiance that directly contradicts the styles of its predecessors. The illustrator clearly wanted to highlight the dark versus light approach and in doing so, illuminated the characters in a way that otherwise would not have been possible had this poster been in full color. Instead of emphasizing Harry and his companions in the forefront, the black and white qualities of the picture instead work to place greater emphasis on the individual behind them -- Sirius Black. It is in this manner that the viewer can accurately observe Black from a purely physical standpoint. This is remarkable because, although his appearance is quite scruffy, one can tell immediately that he means no harm to the characters in the forefront. Instead Harry, Ron, and Hermione are much more pre-occupied with whatever it is that stands before them than the figure behind them. Sirius's position behind them illustrates his inherently protective nature as he is quite literally looking over their shoulder with a discernable expression of concern on his face.
	
What is peculiar in this poster is the proportion that the illustrator gave each character with respect to their bodies. Harry and Hermione's bodies are almost completely obscured from the scene, while only Ron's upper shoulders are visible. The way the illustrator positioned each of the characters plays a vital role in determining who the viewer's focus should be upon. Although Harry and Hermione's heads are significantly larger than those of Ron or Sirius, the proportion of Ron and Sirius's bodies show that there is no such decreased importance in either of their roles.  The only character amongst them whose body is evident is Sirius Black's. This suggests the importance of Black not only within this picture, but also re-emphasizes the integral role he plays in watching and caring for the young heroes in the forefront. Perhaps the most interesting quality about Black's appearance in this poster is the way in which he wears his clothing. Notice that he takes painstaking measures to grow out his hair, thereby covering any means of identifying him accurately. But, when the viewers' eye travels down his torso, a great portion of his chest is left bear. Although, the most obvious conclusion would be to suggest that this directly signifies his vulnerability, one could also interpret this as a symbol of his audacity towards the powers that placed him in confinement. By leaving his shirt open and exposing his heart, he defiantly challenges the authority of the dementors, essentially claiming that he has nothing to hide. His firm belief of his own innocence allows Black to be callously wonton in his defense against dementors, those who feed upon weakness and susceptibility. The way the illustrator positioned each of the characters plays a vital role in determining who the viewer's focus should be upon. 
	
While Harry, Ron, and Hermione are looking into the distance with expressions of rapt attention, it is only Sirius Black who seems to exude confidence. This is not to say that Harry and his companions do not seem up to the task before them, only that Sirius's expression leaves no doubt that he is not rattled by whatever they may be required to face, however daunting it might be. What is truly remarkable is the way that Black's self assuredness perpetuates the entire poster, yet he stands the furthest from the front. Although the use of shadows and decreased lighting lend the entire picture to a more hostile, foreboding sense, it cannot be denied that the youthful cleanliness of Harry, Ron, and Hermione contradicts Sirius's more haggard worn appearance. Although Harry has clearly triumphed over his share of ordeals, the viewer cannot help but notice the disparity between him and Sirius Black who seems to have endured much more adversity leading up to this point. The difference is that Harry, while still self-assured and undoubtedly prepared for the worst, possesses a childish naivete and Sirius Black is the embodiment of realism with his raggedy clothing and forlorn expression. 
	
What is clear about this poster is the great pains it takes to emphasize the contrasting qualities within it. While the disparity between  Sirius and the younger heroes before him may be striking, it remains quite clear that they are all hoping for the best while at the same time expecting the worst. Sirius's pained look combined with his positioning behind the characters strongly suggests that he cares immensely for Harry, Ron, and Hermione's well-being. The direct contrast between Sirius's shabby appearance and his inner qualities places even greater emphasis upon the vital role he plays within the series and this poster. His calming presence alone in the picture gives encouragement to Harry, Ron, and Hermione though they might not realize it. Moreover, Sirius's appearance in this poster provides a sense of gravity that is largely absent from the younger characters. While his presence brings solemnity, it does not overwhelm the poster in severity.  This is the effect that Sirius's frayed appearance has on the viewer, that despite the ominous shadows and decreased lighting, he provides a light of experience that he casts on the younger friends. Without his ragged appearance, there would be a lack of contrast that works so flawlessly within this picture.


