Porsche. A name that conjures up childhood dreams across the world. Through the use of visual representations that even the youngest viewer could understand, Porsche creates a dream that helps promote them as a car manufacturer that you, I, and hundreds of thousands of others would want to own. The main purpose of any marketing advertisement is to draw attention, and promote the object of interest in a way that makes it appear "better" than that of its competition. Porsche has done just this with their visual advertisement regarding the 911 GT2 RS. Through their use of elements such as visual text, lighting, picture angle, color choices, and much more subtle elements, Porsche has created a picture that captures its audience within a dream. A dream that many of us want to become a reality.

The visual text used in the advertisement is one of the most important elements Porsche chooses to use in its product advertisement. Starting at the far right with the largest and most prominent words, Porsche states "Fastest Production Car Lap around the Nurburgring". Instantly these words claim the car is not only fast, but the fastest. Continuing on, the text provides proof of its accomplishment by showing a factual time (evidence) and then chooses to downplay their own achievement by implying that numbers are unimportant, but theirs just "happen" to be faster. By using this specific word choice, it gives the impression that they didn't actually work for it and puts them in a position to make their achievement seem even more important. So, how does downplaying ones own achievement play into the bigger picture of trying to promote their own product? Achieving such a task as the fastest time around the Nurburging is simply put, impressive and puts the GT2 RS ahead of its competition as is. But, by achieving the fastest time around the Nurburgring without even trying? It puts Porsche in an entire league of its own with the GT2 RS and also begs the question; what if they actually tried? In short, it gives them a status that no other auto manufacturer can even come close to, even the directly competing Nissan GTR.

Color and lighting also help to clearly develop Porsche's advertisement. The entire right side of the picture has a fade to black, making it appear darker than the rest of the picture. At the same time, the text analyzed in the above paragraphs is both black and blending into this black fade, which helps to reinforce Porsche's view that the numbers are unimportant by making them less visible; in the dark. Contrasting this unimportance of the text is the bright, centralized car, which is gleaming while light bounces off of its side. By making the car bright and in a sense highlighted, it draws importance to what really matters: the car, not the numbers. Even further drawing upon this idea that numbers don't truly matter, a competitors lap time is blended into the rear of the GT2 RS. Both the haze in the background and the competitors lap time are a light gray, making it barely visible and ultimately less important following the trend of downplaying numbers value.

Another key element used in Porsche's advertisement to help convey the image of the perfect car is the angle from which the picture is taken. Low, in front and looking back at the car, this is the angle we are presented with in Porsche's advertisement as it helps to provide us with both the "dream" aspect, and the ideal of "no limits" which furthers a concept of the perfect driving experience. First off, the angle provides us with almost no way to see into the car. We have no visual representation of who is driving this powerful, gorgeous machine. At the same time, the cockpit is dark and unlit also making it virtually impossible to see who is driving, while at the same time leaving an err of mystery. The mystery leaves us with the possibility that "we", ourselves could be driving this legendary Porsche. Combine these factors and it plays on thousands of childhood dreams of one day owning one of the most iconic cars in the entire industry; a car that many deem a "Supercar".

Continuing with this thought of the perfect dream, the low, in-front angle leaves us, the audience, to imagine what is ahead in what appears to be a never-ending road. It could be a long straight road, which favors speed, or a curvy track favoring agility. Either way, the picture allows the viewer to make the decision as to what his or her own dream is. The skies are clear, the road is perfectly smooth, the blurring of the road gives us a sense of speed, and all of these things combine to help create the enthusiasts image of the "Perfect driving scenario" or to the more abundant average viewer, a dream combination.

In Porsche's advertisement, many elements come together to help create an image of a product that people want to own. As kids, we've all dreamed of owning a fast, exotic car for one reason or another at some point. Lamborghinis have devilish looks, the name Ferrari conjures up images of bright red sports cars, while Porsche has always derived its legacy from the experience and dreams it gives to people around the world. As Porsche famously says themselves, "There is no substitute". And as a result, almost all motoring enthusiasts agree, Porsche delivers one of the fastest and the purest driving experiences, far surpassing those of its closest rivals and gives us something to dream about at night.
