September 11, 2001 will always live on to be one of the most infamous days in American history.  Because it was the most fatal attack on U.S. soil since Pearl Harbor, the day was documented with thousands of images and videos, creating lasting memories that will haunt Americans for generations to come. Although so many of these images create a sense of terror, sadness, and destruction, some images stand out from the others as showing hope and bravery from Americans. One picture in particular, referred to as "Raising the Flag at Ground Zero," shows three firemen as they raise an American flag amidst the smoke, ruble, and dust from the Twin Towers.  This image gives a sense of bravery, pride, and hope as the three dirty, exhausted firemen stand strong next to the flag that represents why they were fighting to save the victims on that fateful day.

The picture of the three firemen covered in dust and residue from the collapsed towers leaves a powerful image that resonates in Americans' minds as they think back to that terrible day.  The overall surroundings in the picture show just how much destruction was caused by the two hijacked planes.  Someone who is looking at this picture without knowing it is from September 11th could immediately tell that something has been completely destroyed.  There is nothing but mangled metal, broken concrete, and thick dust all around the firemen.  The destruction that was captured in this picture truly shows the extent of just how damaging the attack was.

The main focus of the photograph is the three firemen who are raising the American flag up a broken, leaning pole. The image of these men, who are clearly tired and exhausted from working to save lives, creates a powerful image of resilient hope and bravery.  Whether you're an American or not this picture shows the resilient bravery that America shared on that day. In a way, the picture is very similar to the image of the American soldiers raising the American flag on the Island of Iwo Jima during World War II.  Just as the firefighters raised the flag at ground zero, the four soldiers at Iwo Jima raised the American flag to show their strength and pride after fighting nonstop to secure the island. Both of these images show the honor that Americans all share in any situation.

As the firefighters raise the flag, they are surrounded by grey smoke and dust from the debris, making the red, white, and blue from the American flag stand out even more. This contrast of a grim grey cloud against the bright red, white, and blue make this image very powerful. It creates a sense of separation between the destruction of the terrorists and the will to fight and stay strong in a time of terror that the Americans were showing. The photographer did a great job of portraying feelings of triumph and optimism in such a grim situation. The country had just taken a huge blow causing so many feelings of terror and danger, but this photo gave life to the resiliency of Americans by showing that we will fight in honor of our country in even the most dangerous of times.

 It was hard for the American people not to feel defeated after the tallest buildings in the world had been taken down in a matter of hours. Being the strongest country in the world, it was very unexpected and terrifying for everyone to see a group of people so easily take thousands of American lives. Despite all of the terror, the country rallied together and dusted off the dirt and got back up even stronger. Although this picture only shows three firefighters, they are a symbol of the thousands of heroes that worked to save American lives for the honor of their country. Any American firefighter that day can look at this picture with pride because it shows the overall sense of camaraderie that they shared. Their bravery in the face of imminent danger inspired anyone who listened to their stories from their experiences of 9/11.  The courageous men raising the flag give me that same courage because they are regular Americans just doing their job. Metaphorically speaking, the raising of the flag out of the ruble shows that America as a whole can rise out of the ruble that was created when those terrorists attacked us.

If someone understands the context and the setting of the picture, it becomes a powerful and moving peace of art that represents something bigger than itself. I think that's why this picture is so memorable and recognizable not only in the United States of America but across the world. The emotions of seriousness captured on the firefighters' faces provoke hope and courage in the face of imminent danger. Furthermore, the contrast of colors highlights the flags bold colors and forces the flag to become a symbol for the resiliency of the American people. The context of the picture and the setting add importance to the significance of the events on that day and make this moment seem important due to the gravity of the situation.
