How could these steel workers be so calm? No worries in the world, just laying out on a simple I-beam. It's so fascinating; no safety ropes, no precautions, just them and the whole city. New York during the late 20's was just starting to boom as a big city, in the United States. Many immigrants were coming from far places to start a new life in the city and mainly find work.  A lot of these immigrants worked in construction fields. You cannot be too sure though, you really will never know where they came from or what their story was. The image is open to so many different outlooks on the City of New York and how these men are shown working high above it all.  You can see all of Manhattan and even parts of Brooklyn. The photo is also in black and white, so it gives more support that its from the past. I truly love the essence and vibes given off by this ordinary historical photo. When most of us look at a photograph or even a painting, we simply see the meaning behind the surface. There is so much more behind this picture, its abundant. This photograph, all in all is one boundless image, contrasting between the busy streets of New York and this surreal workplace residing above.

When you first look at any picture, you have to keep in mind the angle the photograph is being taken from. High and low angles can make or break a piece. A low angle might make the image larger than reality, while a high angle makes the subject look very insignificant. In the image of these fearless and valiant construction workers, the artist took the picture looking down on the workers, including the vast concrete jungle that makes up New York City.  It's truly astonishing how this picture portrays the city and in contrast makes the workers setting almost look fake, or even made up.  The men in the photo are working in impractical conditions, which very few Americans could ever really experience.  The fog and tone of the black and white image, adds to the old fashion nature of the photograph. In the background, the photograph gives off the vibe of a hazy city, full of busy workers and aspiring young adults.  It almost reminds me of a setting that resided on an old AMC movie.

The main focal point in the picture is definitely the construction workers throughout the middle. With the subject literally right in front of the viewer's eyes, it makes you think more about how the photo is really comprised. How would the image be different if they were not working above the whole city?  A close up, like this photo, conveys more power than a wide shot would. The image captures the main subject, and reflects on it by including the vast and titanic background. New York City during this time period was under full construction. Expanding its limits everyday, with new people coming into the country everyday at Ellis Island. New York City was the hub for immigration on the east coast, people travelling from all over Europe and even parts of Africa. "The American Dream" as many people referred too it, is definitely resembled through this photograph. Everyone wanted a new start in the land of the free, where hard work pays off and maybe one day you'll make it to the top.  The fact that the workers have no sense of emotion, while laying on an ordinary I-beam, dumbfounds me. Hanging inches from death, but still sustaining full control is incredibly farfetched. The photographer wanted to expose, the life of a construction worker. They work all day, playing with death every step they take. That's the true essence behind this photograph, not the fact that these workers are just chilling out so high up, but that they could die at any second. Too the viewer's knowledge, one of the workers could have fallen over dead not to long after the picture was taken.

Since this picture was taken in the past, there is not too much clarity in the photo. The subjects are very well present in the picture, but the background tells a completely different story.  You can tell from the picture, that the streets underneath are packed and full of life. America was in the era where everything was starting to prosper, expansion was on the mind of everyone.  The eyes of the viewer are drawn directly to the workers, the focus is mainly on the construction but distinct itself from the streets underneath. Its clear and focused on the construction workers, but is distracted and very vintage like.

The contrast in this photograph is huge, the fact that they are both two very different parts to this one very picturesque image. While the background has great detail and vivid display of color, the main aspect of the photo has no sense of emotion. The workers are just relaxing, no movements, no facial expressions. They are laying on a piece of metal thinner than their own body, with no worries in the world. They give of the expression that this work is nothing but another day on the job. The essence given off by the photograph is scenic.  New York is and always will be one of America's greatest cities. This photo shows all the fine details. I guess hard work sure does pay off.
