Contrary to popular belief perfection and beauty are often at two different ends of the spectrum. Something doesn't have to be perfect to show beauty and sometimes beauty does not equal perfection. Many people look at the ordinary things in their life and find solace in the tranquility of those ordinary items. With advances in modern technology many of these ordinary people have access to the highest quality photography devices. When you combine these two you receive amazing pictures of ordinary things. For example a sanitation worker for the city of New York used his job to get around the city, while walking around he saw natural beauty in the "Nature" of New York City. He was not a professional photographer but still he wanted to show the world that everything, including the parts of New York that seem disgusting to some people. This photographer takes ordinary photos out of the city of New York and transforms them into the unseen environments of nature, morosely and calm portrayed in his photos.

The first photo shows the comparisons and contrasts between the natural and manmade "Nature". At first glance all that can be seen is a wave, crashing onto shore washing the rocks there of their dust. Into the background the skyline of New York can be seen faintly shining as a jewel that had just sent this wave to wash itself clean. At the second glance the viewer realizes that the rock that you have seen is actually a slab of concrete with a piece of rebar jutting out of it. The strict contrast of these two is accepted by our minds because we accept that this is part of the nature of this city. Cement for rocks, the skyline instead of mountains. To be honest it's not the quality of this picture that intrigues me but the way that we perceive it. Our mind instantly thinks that this is the norm, when the norm is Mother Nature untouched by human hands. Why do we find so much beauty in this? I don't pretend to understand the human mind but I find this fascinating.

Bringing up the second picture we see a more somber scene. Before we even look at the picture we can notice the dark filter cast around this shadowy scene. It portrays a grimy day from the view of two firefighters. In the background you see it is night, with the only source of light being those from some headlights, there are about four to five vehicles surrounding the men. This picture does not have a caption or a title, and yet you understand completely the morosely of the situation. The drawn out looks on their faces, light is gone from their eyes and yet they are still working and fighting against this fire. This shows their very real determination and the unstoppable force that they work with.

Lastly the third photo describes a scene again with firefighters and yet it is vastly different, calming almost. In this photo the color is saturated focusing on the sparks flying off the welder and the smoke pouring out of the top of the building. This piece of photography seems rushed, not blurred but still everyone in the picture seems to be in a hurry to do his or her job. There is a certain calm about this photo. Even in this chaos these men and women are ready to fight this fire. Even though the power in the building is failing, you can still see the glare of the signs advertising shops that will soon be destroyed. This photo brings to mind a calm before the storm and not just in the fire fighters, in the building as a whole.

This photographer did a grand job portraying the parts of New York City that no one sees. He show the enviroments beautifully enveloping the city around it. He shows the somber scenes of a sad job. Lastly he shows the calm before the storm. This photographer who remained anonymous online took out the anemometry of this city. This city, seen by many and yet explored by few shall still have its many secrets but these photos brought to life the realness of it all.
