Rising from beneath the muggle packaging, a sparkling new broomstick delights the viewer with its magnificent beauty.  The swirls of mist and stars floating around the broom help to create the magic within the picture, as the plain box and ribbon lay discarded on the ground.  The broom, with its long clean line, makes the viewer wish their own broomsticks had the ability to be so sleek and new.  By looking at the way the broom floats above the ordinary packaging, the viewer can see how J.K. Rowling has the ability to make normal things extraordinary; this is important because with this chapter art, the artist and Rowling make magic seem more important than non-magic.
 
By taking an ordinary object, such as this household cleaning utility, J.K. Rowling is able to stretch the viewer's imagination to beyond what is normal.  Children everywhere are able to take their mothers' brooms and pretend they are wizards and witches because she gave them the little push to imagine the impossible.  This broom, pictured in chapter eleven of Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban, makes brooms in every cupboard around the world look pitiful.  With its long, sleek handle and it's crisp, straight tail, the broom pictured projects a look of pure magic.  Even the brace between the tail and handle shines like it is made of pure gold.  It is hard for a viewer to think this broom has ever been used.  This broom shines so brightly, it can be seen even in black and white!  The tail has two sparkles that catch the viewer's eye, without those two accents it would be difficult to see this broom for anything more than a regular broomstick.  It is through the accents in this picture that the artist creates a sense of wonderment and magic.

The swirls of mist and stars around the broom are accents that seem vital to the picture.  Swirling around the broom in its magical manner, the mist creates a sense of wonderment.  Why is it there?  The viewer could assume that it is dust from the box that has not been opened in years, maybe lost in an attic and an unassuming person stumbled upon it.  However, since the use of stars in the mist is clearly visible, the viewer must assume that the broom has some supernatural powers.  So easily the artist was able to give an ordinary object significance and magic, just by adding stars.  The swirls at the ends of the mist draw the viewer's eye to each end of the broom, making it appear even longer than the box it came in.  This elongated affect adds emphasis to the lingering infatuation with wizards and witches.  It makes it appear better than the box it came in by being so clean and new.  This is a huge comparison to the worn box lying below.  The positioning of the broom in comparison to the ordinary box puts wizards and their belongings above muggles.  In this way, they are able to make something normal extraordinary and leave the ordinary behind.
 
Lying torn open below the magic broom is the forgotten packaging.  Even this, seemingly plain, box has serious meaning in the picture.  The wrinkled paper inside the box creates a feeling of urgency.  The person opening the box was clearly more concerned with its contents than saving the wrapping.  Ribbon lays forgotten to the sides of the box as a hint that it was a gift.  The ribbon almost looks like wings extending from the box, like it wants to be able to fly like the broom inside.  Shadows are cast by the box, giving the viewer an idea of how deep the box has to be to hold such a significant gift.  With the shadow growing larger near the top of the box, the viewer is left to wonder what the source of the light is.  Is it sunrise when the gift has been delivered?  Or maybe it was a gift delivered at sunset so the rider could leave that night.

The combination of J.K. Rowling's writing and the chapter artist's vision has created a picture that can confuse and delight people all at the same time.  Even the way the handle is tilted, it is almost inviting the reader to join in the action.  J.K. Rowling and the chapter artist have created this enticing picture, and it is only the chapter art!  With magic dust swirling around a broomstick that is gleaming in the unknown light source, the ordinary box is put to shame by its beauty.  This small picture has more meaning than meets the eye.  The positioning of the magical object, rising above the mundane and ordinary box, reveals the higher priority some people place on being magical.  In the Harry Potter series, there is a clear distinction between muggle-born and pure-blood, but they all seem to agree that magic is better than non-magic.

Wonderment is an excellent word to summarize this picture; the wonder in the unknown and how seemingly ordinary things become magical.  Brooms, objects that have been in use for centuries for their practicality, have been made into extraordinary flying objects with the use of imagination and creativity.  It is through pictures like this one, J.K. Rowling's visions have been brought to life.  Her creativity in words has been translated into a visual form the reader can use as a guide.  When looking at this picture, a viewer can almost imagine the person who opened the package standing in awe for a few seconds before realizing what exactly they have received.  It is through chapter art like this that helps the reader realize the importance of making things ordinary extraordinary.


