How could these steel workers be so calm? No worries in the world, just laying out on a simple I-beam. It's so fascinating no safety ropes, no precautions, just them and the whole city. New York during the late 20's was just starting to boom as a big city. Many immigrants were coming from far places to start new lives and mainly find work.  A lot of these worked in construction. You cannot be too sure though; you really will never know where they came from or what their story was. The image is open to so many different outlooks on the City of New York. It almost ludacris how these men are shown working above it all.  You can see all of Manhattan and even parts of Brooklyn. The essence and vibes given off by this ordinary historical photo is phenomenal. From the angle the picture is taken, to the focal point in which the subjects rest. When most of us look at a photograph or even a painting, we simply see the meaning behind the surface. There is so much more behind this picture, its abundant. This photograph, all in all is one boundless image, contrasting between the busy streets of New York and the surreal workplace residing above.

When you first look at any picture, you have to keep in mind the angle the photograph is being taken from. High and low angles can make or break a piece. A low angle might make the image larger than reality, while a high angle makes the subject look very insignificant. In the photograph of these gallant construction workers, the photojournalist took the picture looking down on the workers, including the vast concrete jungle that makes up New York City.  It's truly astonishing how this picture portrays the city, and in contrast makes the workers setting almost look fake, or even made up. The angle exposed in the photo helps add texture to the whole setting, mainly in the background surrounding the scene. In the background, the photograph gives off the vibe of a hazy city, full of busy workers and aspiring young adults.

The main focal point in the picture is definitely the construction workers, who appear in the middle of the image. The eyes of the viewer are drawn directly to the workers, the focus is mainly on the construction but distinct itself from the streets underneath. Its clear and focused on the construction workers, but is distracted and very vintage like. With the subject literally right in front of the viewer's eyes, it makes you think more about how the photo is really comprised. A close up, like this photo, conveys more power than a wide shot would. The image captures the main subject, and reflects on it by including the vast and titanic background. New York City during this time period was under full construction. New York City was the hub for immigration on the east coast, people travelling from all over Europe and even parts of Africa. "The American Dream" as many people referred to it, is definitely resembled through this photograph. Everyone wanted a new start in the land of the free, where hard work pays off and maybe one day you'll make it to the top.  The fact that the workers have no sense of emotion, while laying on an ordinary I-beam, dumbfounds me. Hanging inches from death, but still sustaining full control is incredibly farfetched. The photographer wanted to expose, the life of a construction worker. They work all day, playing with death every step they take. That's the true essence behind this photograph, not the fact that these workers are just sitting out so high up, but that they could die at any second.

Since this picture was taken in the past, there is not too much clarity in the photo. The fog and tone of the black and white image, adds to the old fashion nature of the photograph. It almost reminds me of a setting that resided on an old AMC movie. Black and white keeps the viewer engrossed more on the actual conformation and texture of the picture. The lighting and shadows left by the subjects in the photo, helps to add to the settings exquisite look. The workers are very well present in the picture, but the background tells a completely different story.  You can tell from the picture, that the streets underneath are packed and full of life. America was in the era where everything was starting to prosper, expansion was on the mind of everyone. Clarity in a black and white image tends to side with what mood or feeling the photo gives off. Since there is no color at all, the eye of the viewer seeks out the composition and deep texture displayed.
The contrast and feeling of nothingness in this photograph is huge, the fact that they are both two very different pieces. While the background has great detail and a vivid display of the city life, the main aspect of the photo has no sense of emotion. The workers are just relaxing, no movements, no facial expressions. They are laying on a piece of metal thinner than their own body, with no worries in the world. Even the expression given off by the men states that this is nothing but another day on the job.

After viewing and examining the ceaseless imagery, and the contrast between the New York streets and the bizarre workplace dwelling above, the viewer sees the elegant and deeper meaning the photographer originally tried to convey. The photos vintage essence adds texture and meaning, beyond the black and white setting. Not only is the focal point set on the construction workers, but also it reflects on the city life below. Images tend to say more than meets the eye, and this photograph certainly says a lot.
