The Hunger Games is suppose to be a story about Katniss fighting for her life in order to win the treacherous hunger games that are created to kill innocent children and show the all-controlling power the capitol has over the twelve districts of Panem.  However the movie poster with Katniss in the center and Peeta and Gale on her left and right illustrates the movie in a different context.  By looking at the placement of the line "may the odds ever be in your favor" and the placement of the three characters in the contrasting colors of black and white and light and dark we can see the introduction of a forbidden love story which most people don't see because of the title of the movie The Hunger Games suggest a story about fighting to live not a love story.
	
The line "may the odds ever be in your favor" is a line that suggests good luck and good fortune in a difficult time; however, with the placement of the line above the three characters and the writing style/font of the line, the words suggests a different meaning. The font of the line is written in a very orderly style with all uppercase letters and an evenly spaced distance between each letter.  The font of the words suggests that some high power is in control; however the placement at the top and the fading color of the words also suggest that the all-controlling power is beginning to lose control.  The fading and discoloration of the line also suggests a deeper meaning to a simple line with an obvious meaning. The line that should offer good fortune in the Hunger Games appears to have a different connotation and suggests the idea that best man shall win.  However the men are not fighting for the honor and glory of winning the Hunger Games, which would be the logical idea to assume from the title of the movie. The two men are actually fighting for the love and affection of Katniss.  
	
The darkness that Katniss is portrayed in with her dark clothes and the shadows behind her alludes to her tough personality and the difficulty it would be to make Katniss fall in love with Gale or Peeta.  Katniss facial expression depicts a character that is fierce and has her eyes set on a prize; however the prize is not winning the games, the prize is indirectly love. Katniss must choose which man she wants to love.  All three of the characters have a look of extreme motivation and fierceness that commands the attention on their faces.  All three of the characters indirectly seem to know they are fighting for love and the contrasting colors that Gale and Peeta are wearing suggests who the better man is.  Peeta is wearing a black shirt, which suggests darkness and evil.  Peeta appears to be the wrong choice for Katniss because of his dark clothing in comparison to Gale who is wearing a white shirt. The white shirt that Gale is wearing suggests goodness and purity, which makes Gale, appear to be the better match for Katniss.  However Peeta and Katniss are matching in the colors they are wearing and the matching of the two character's suggest a deeper bond that has formed between the two in comparison to the contrast between the white and black shirts of Katniss and Gale.  The lighting behind the three characters also illuminates what character is the best choice for Katniss.  Gale appears to be in a more shadowy area of the picture while Peeta on the other hand is an area where light is shining through the trees.  The shining of the light through the trees on Peeta and the darkness that surrounds Gale also suggests that Peeta might be the better man for Katniss; however the positioning of the three characters gives the viewer a different perspective on the situation between the three characters.
	
Katniss is strategically placed between Peeta and Gale in a way that suggests the closeness of the relationship between her and the two characters.  Katniss is directly in the middle of the poster commanding the attention of the viewer and Peeta and Gale are on the left and right of Katniss.  The placement of Katniss in the middle of the two male characters illustrates the idea that Katniss must choose between the two suitors who she wants to love and relates to the idea may the best man win.  The body position of Katniss alludes to which suitor Katniss might choose which is different than what the artist of poster depicts in comparison to the lighting of the picture.  The lighting of the picture and the matching of the outfits suggest that Peeta is the correct choice for Katniss because of his resemblance to Katniss in his outfit and the light shining around him; however, the body positioning of Katniss hints to the idea that Gale is the option she chooses.  Katniss back is facing toward Peeta and all though the two are matching and the light is shown on Peeta the positioning of Katniss illustrates the idea that she is not going to choose Peeta.  Gale on the other hand seems like the suitor Katniss will choose because her body is facing toward Gale; however there is a larger amount of distance between Gale and Katniss in comparison to the closeness of Peeta and Katniss.  
	
Katniss, Gale, and Peeta are entangled in a love triangle and Katniss represents the all-controlling power in deciding which person she loves.  The assumed power and the people that control the hunger games and wish the contestants the best of luck with the line "may the odds be ever in your favor" is the capitol; however with careful analysis of the poster the viewer can get a glimpse of a tragic love story where Katniss must choose which man, Gale or Peeta, she should go for and the two men are hoping that odds are ever in their favor. 


