The Hunger Games is suppose to be a story about Katniss fighting for her life in order to win the treacherous and deadly Hunger Games.   The games were created with a slim chance of survival and were meant to illustrate the all-controlling power of the Capital by it's ability to kill 23 innocent children from the twelve districts surrounding Panem.  However the movie poster showing Katniss positioned between Gale and Peeta, and the line "may the odds ever be in your favor" floating over the heads of the three characters suggests that a different story will be told throughout the novel.  By looking at the placement of the line, "may the odds be ever in your favor" and the body language and placement of the three characters in the contrasting shades of light and dark, we can see the introduction of a forbidden love story and the tough decision Katniss will have to make to decide who will win over her heart, this is important because although two of the characters are fighting for their lives, the main problem that is distracting all three of the characters is who will win over Katniss's love and ultimately become the true victor.  Is it Peeta the boy who is placed in the deadly arena with Katniss who has confessed his love for her or Gale her unknown childhood sweetheart?
	
The line "may the odds ever be in your favor" is a line that suggests good luck and good fortune in a difficult time; however, with the placement of the line above the three characters and the writing style and font of the line, the words suggests a different meaning. The font of the line is written in a very orderly style with all uppercase letters and an evenly spaced distance between each letter.  The font of the words suggests that some higher power is in control; however the placement at the top and the fading color of the words also suggest that the all-controlling power is beginning to lose control.  The fading color also suggests that the all-controlling power is not the main topic that is being explored and that there is another topic that demands the attention of the reader throughout the novel. The fading and discoloration of the line also intensifies the argument that there is a deeper meaning to the simple line than the obvious. The line that should offer good fortune in the Hunger Games appears to have a different connotation by suggesting the idea that best man shall win.  But what shall the best man win?  By looking at the title of the movie, the best man should win the coveted Hunger Games and thus gain a years supply of food for his district; however, the characters are not truly fighting for the honor and glory of being crowned victor of the Hunger Games.  Although two of the characters, Katniss and Peeta, are fighting in the Hunger Games ,the true game that is being played is between Gale and Peeta who  are fighting to win over the love of Katniss.  
	
The darkness that Katniss is portrayed in with her dark clothes and the shadows behind her alludes to her tough personality and how difficult it would be to make Katniss fall in love with Gale or Peeta.  Katniss's facial expression depicts a character that is fierce and determined; however, Katniss is not determined to win the Hunger Games, she is focused on making the decision on with which man she wants to spend the rest of her life. All three of the characters have a look of extreme motivation and fierceness that commands the attention on their faces and they all know they are fighting for something they strongly desire, the love of someone else.  The contrasting colors that are worn by Gale and Peeta suggest which character is the better man and who will get what they desire, the love and affection of Katniss.  Peeta is wearing a black shirt, which suggests darkness and evil and thus makes him appear to be the wrong choice for Katniss in comparison to Gale who is wearing a white shirt. However, Peeta and Katniss match, which suggests a deeper bond has formed between the two. Although black represents evil and Gale is wearing a white shirt that represents purity and goodness, the contrasting of colors between Katniss and Gale suggests that the two do not have as intimate and close of a bond as Katniss and Peeta.  The lighting behind the three characters also illuminates what character is the best choice for Katniss.  Gale appears to be in a more shadowy area of the picture while Peeta on the other hand is an area where light is shining through the trees.  The light that illuminates Peeta and the darkness that surrounds Gale also leads the viewer to believe that Peeta might be the better man for Katniss; however the body positioning of the three characters further complicates the situation by suggesting that the victor of Katniss's love might not be Peeta and may be Gale.
	
Katniss is strategically placed between Peeta and Gale in a way that suggests the closeness of the relationship between her and the two characters.  The poster displays Katniss directly in the middle of the poster commanding the attention of the viewer.  The placement of Katniss in the middle of the two male characters illustrates the idea that Katniss must choose between the two suitors who is "ever in her favor".  The body position of Katniss alludes to which suitor Katniss might choose which is different than what the poster illustrates in comparison to the lighting of the picture.  The lighting of the picture and the matching of the outfits suggest that Peeta is the correct choice for Katniss; however, the body positioning of Katniss hints to the idea that Gale is the option she may choose.  Katniss's back is facing toward Peeta strengthening the idea that she is not going to choose Peeta.  Gale on the other hand seems like the suitor Katniss will selesct because her body is facing towards him; in contrast however there is a larger amount of distance between Gale and Katniss in comparison to the closeness of Peeta and Katniss.  
	
Katniss, Gale, and Peeta are all entangled in a love triangle and Katniss represents the all-controlling power and must make a difficult decision of which suitor she will choose.  The red strip of cloth on her jacket is the color of love and illustrates that she is ultimately in charge of deciding who the victor of the game will be and who has odds in their favor; her newly discovered star-crossed lover or her best friend.  The tragic love triangle illustrated on the poster suggests that although there is a connection between Katniss and each of the boys, the ultimate victor will be Peeta.


