A picture can often give a good recollection of an event that has previously occurred, but often times the picture the story tells is skewed by how the photographer feels about the event. The two pictures are both taken during a riot on a soccer field. However in the picture on the right, the photographer shows multiple rioters on the attack against a field official at a soccer game, and the one on the left shows the opposite as what appears to one and possibly two field officials running after fleeing rioters or fans with a metal pipe ready to be swung. Both of these pictures could have been taken during the same riot, but give two completely different recollections of the event which shows just how drastically a photographer can alter how an event is viewed.

The picture on the right depicts the rioters as vigilantes or animals, they seem to have only one thing in mind and that would be to destroy everything in they're path. They are pictured as though they are running in packs like wolves that smell blood and the lone field official is that wounded animal that is helpless against all of them. When viewer looks at this picture the first thing noticed is the attack of field official, there are three rioters and only one official so to start out with he doesn't really stand much of chance. Also he is a retreated position with his arm up and leaning back away from his attackers. One of the attackers is using a chair albeit a plastic chair, none the less it adds to the stacked odds against the field official. All of the other rioters seem to be running towards something behind the field official which makes it seem as though the main goal of the riot was actually not to attack the field official. The fact that the attacking of the field official was most likely not the main goal of the riot gives the viewer a stronger feeling of just how animalistic the rioters are in that they are attacking this guy who is not fighting back at them for no reason. Due to this being the view point that the audience of this picture would have it is most likely that they would side with those who would try to use more force against rioters in an effort to try and stop the riots entirely or at least make some rioters think twice before they begin storming soccer fields.

In the picture on the left the perspective is completely altered, the fight in this riot is being initiated by the field official as he chases down the rioters with what looks like a fairly thick metal pipe. Most of the rioters are running in the opposite direction of the field official which shows that he is not trying to simply defend himself. Behind the field official it appears as though there may be another official aiding him, however because most of this person is cutoff the viewer only has the ability to see the one official chasing down multiple rioters or fans. The rioters do not seem as though they are trying to cause any harm which begs the question were they simple just fans that got a little too excited and decided to storm the field. Then met by a field official with a metal pipe upon the storming and were forced to flee back towards the stands. Also the people in the background of the picture are running in the same as the ones being chased by field official, giving a similar image to that of a lion chasing a group of gazelles. From this picture the viewer would not see the rioters as dangerous in anyway even though there are many different things that they could have done to cause mass chaos before this picture was taken, but because the picture was taken as they were retreating away from the field official it appears as though they may not be doing anything wrong, and the official is simply overreacting to the situation. Due to the perspective of this picture being the opposite extreme of the first picture, it would most likely be the case that the viewers of this picture would feel as though the field officials have been afforded too much power in the attempt to combat the rioting and that it would probably be best for officials to take a more lenient approach.

Perspective of an event can greatly change the opinion someone has about that event, although these pictures may not be of the exact same event, they very similar in nature. Both of these pictures were obviously taken during riots taken place at soccer games, and depict someone being attacked during the riot.  However the two pictures portray something completely different, one shows a single person being attacked by a many, and the other shows the opposite. The reason for this would simply be for the photographer to sway the opinions of his or her viewers. The photographer that put out the picture of the rioters attacking the one official would most likely be on the side of what is causing the riots. While the photographer that took the picture of the official attacking all the rioters is most likely a supporter of the cause of the rioters.
