Most fairytales share major archetypes; the princess, the castle, a handsome prince, and an enchanting setting. "There Was Once" by Margaret Atwood, published in 1922, and "The Sleeping Beauty in the Wood," by Charles Perrault, published in 1697, are fairytales that revolve around the female lead. Both stories begin stereotypically, though each differentiate in plot and style are the story progresses. "There Once Was" deviates from the standard fairytale, as it becomes an ironic examination of literary archetypes and their disparity in respect to modern day life. Utilizing irony, point of view, and tone to compare and contrast  "There Was Once," and "Sleeping Beauty in the Wood," it becomes obvious to the reader that while both stories begin as typical fairytales, they differ greatly in their completion where Atwood's story has no end and Perrault's story ends with a happily ever after. This is essential as Atwood both examines the archetypes in "There Was Once" and contrasts the literary elements utilized in "Sleeping Beauty in the Wood".

In "There Was Once" Atwood develops irony throughout the story through commentary regarding the fireplace, the beauty of the female lead, and marriage. Irony is first and foremost found during the retort of the female critic in "There Was Once," informing the reader and narrator that a modern day poverty stricken household would not have a fireplace and "socioeconomically speaking [the female lead] was not poor" (Atwood 305). Atwood also engages irony when the narrator describes the female lead "as beautiful as she was good" (305). The critic exclaims that the female lead should be more average due to the preexisting "intimidating physical role models" (305). Marriage can also be considered ironic as the narrator says the "young girl" ends her story "with a marriage" when the critic believes that in the "now" happily ever after's do not always need to end in marriage. During 1922, when this story was written, the National Women's Party was prominent "with the goal of eliminating all discrimination against women" ("National Women's Party). Thus, the story's outdated ideal of marriage is ironic because the narrator believes both the man and marriage will lead the to happiness, despite the notable fight for women's rights. The critic uses her comment on stories ending in marriage being something of the past as a way to conclude the narrator's story with no clear ending. The fireplace, physical beauty of the female lead, and marriage display archetypes in stereotypical fairytales, and illuminate ironies in relation to the time period when the story was written. Additionally, Atwood uses the aforementioned ironic elements to subtly criticize the stereotypical fairytale properties of Perrault's story.

Atwood also utilizes point of view in "There Was Once," in contrast with the point of view in Perrault's story "Sleeping Beauty in the Wood." Atwood's story is told through the voice of a narrator, though a critic provides commentary from the point of view of a modern day woman. In comparison, Perrault's story is told from the point of view of a narrator where there is noticeable lack of female input. The point of view of both the stories can be scrutinized in regard to the physical beauty of the female leads of both stories. In Perrault's narration the princess is described as being "...very beautiful; for her swooning away had not diminished one bit of her complexion; her checks were carnation..." (Perrault 298). Atwood's narrator on the other hand, describes his female lead as "beautiful," though the critic exclaims "[w]omen these days have to deal with too many intimidating physical role models...[c]an't we make her more average?" (Atwood 305). The critic in Atwood's story constantly retorts to the narrator her opinion allowing no progression to the story. In contrast, the narrator in Perrault's story goes uninterrupted ending his story with the prince saving his family and a happily ever after. Atwood uses the critic's point of view to critique the same archetype of the feminine beauty in Perrault's "Sleeping Beauty in the Wood". 

In Atwood's story "There Was Once" the critic's tone can be described as both scornful and exasperated. The critic voicing the sentiments of a modern day woman becomes increasingly scornful as the narrator continues the story using stereotypical fairytale elements. The critics tone is displayed through her attitude towards the narrator, as she critiques the way he characterizes the female lead of the story in regards to; living situation, economic status, outward appearance, skin color, relationship with step-mother, age, marriage. At the end of the story, the tone of the critic is further revealed when the narrator mentions marriage and the critic comments "you can scratch the condescending paternalistic terminology. It's woman, pal. Woman" (Atwood 306). Atwood uses italics in this quote in order to emphasize the critic's scornful and disdaining tone toward the comments on the female lead made by the narrator. The critic's tone is additionally made evident when she offers the narrator insight, exclaiming he "do[esn't] know what color" to make the female lead.  "It would probably be your color" (306). The disdainful tone of the critic in Atwood's stories allows no advancement of the narrator's story and directly contrasts to Perrault's enchanting tone.  

In contrast to the critic's tone in Atwood's story, Perrault uses an enchanting tone throughout "Sleeping Beauty in the Wood," as he describes fairytale archetypes of his story. The aforementioned archetypes included the damsel in distress, the prince, fairies, and the queen and king. The archetype of the princess "may be the oldest female archetype in all of popular literature and the movies. She is always beautiful, vulnerable, and in need of rescue, specifically by a Knight and, once rescued, she is taken care of in lavish style" ("Sacred Contracts"). Perrault uses this archetype to contribute to his enchanting tone throughout the story, describing his princess as looking like "a little angel, she was so very beautiful...her cheeks were carnation, and her lips were coral" (Perrault 298). Perrault also uses the princess as an archetype to further the charming tone of the story by relating to the idea of the princess being rescued from the prince who "charmed [her and] assured her that he loved her better then he did himself" (300). The prince also takes the princes to his castle paralleling the archetype description of the princess in regards to her being taken care of with an extravagant life. Similar to the prince, the archetype of the evil queen aides in producing an enchanting tone by providing a villain to the fairytale. The queen archetype "represents power and authority in all women...[and] has been largely represented by male authors of fairy tales and folklore as a wicked, dark force" ("Sacred Contracts"). Perrault uses various classics such as the queen throughout his story that contribute to his serene and charming tone leading to the stereotypical fairytale happily ever after. Perrault's and Atwood's tones differ where Atwood uses the scornful tone of the female critic when remarking on the archetypal elements the narrator uses. The elements being criticized in Atwood's story that produce this exasperated tone parallel to the stereotypical fairytale elements that Perrault uses in his story to produce the enchanting tone. 

"There Was Once" by Margaret Atwood and "Sleeping Beauty in the Wood" by Charles Perrault both begin as typical fairytales, but as the stories progress clear differences become evident. The completion of these two stories are different in that Atwood's story has no clear ending where Perrault's story ends with a happily ever after. The use of irony in "There Was Once" exposes fairytale archetypes and that are critiqued in Perrault's story. In "There Was Once," the critic's point of view, representing a modern day woman, adds a feminine opinion and perspective to the events of the story. In contrast, Perrault uses a third party male point of view. Tone is also a contrasting literary element in both of the stories. Atwood expresses a tone of scorn as the critique debases the narrator's use of stereotypical fairytale elements. In contrast, Perrault uses an enchanting tone that stems from his description of typical fairytale archetypes. Through the comparison and contrast of these two stories, it is evident that the critic in "There Was Once" deplores the archetypal elements of the stereotypical fairytale story.
