Ghosts are commonly associated with a negative connotation. We have all heard of haunting ghost stories where poor bystanders are frightened or intimidated by alleged, "ghost activity." However, "The Lawyer and the Ghost" by Charles Dickens and "20th Century Ghost" by Joe Hill shed a more optimistic light on ghost activity in their short stories. While the stories differ, they both include fictional accounts of ghost encounters where characters help aid one another in personal development. The two stories are similar in the way that they both have personal development through ghost interactions. This is made clear through the authors' use of tone, epiphany and word choice, which is important because it shows personal development cannot always be achieved alone.

In both "The Lawyer and the Ghost" and "20th Century Ghost," tone is used to display personal development between the two protagonists. In "The Lawyer and the Ghost," a ghost invades a man's home, claiming he once lived there and therefore, it belongs to him. At first his tone is cynical, "In this room... my worldly ruin was worked, and I and my children beggared. In this press, the papers in a long, long suit which accumulated for years, were deposited. In this room, when I had died of grief, and long-deferred hope..." (Dickens 308). The ghost's initial tone in this passage is cynical, as if he is trying to turn the man off, and quickly shifts to demanding and rude. The ghost goes on, "This apartment is mine, leave it to me!" (308). The ghost's tone exemplifies the ghost's gritty desire to dwell in the past and revisit the place where he suffered the most when he lived, as well as push the lawyer out. Further on in the story, the ghost's tone changes dramatically after he is given advice to move on and explore the world by the protagonist (309). After hearing the advice the ghost says, '"You are very right, sir,' said the ghost politely. 'It never struck me till now, I'll try a change of air directly'" (309). The ghost's tone immediately changes from cynical and rude to a very appreciative manner. Since the ghost's tone changes so dramatically and so fast, it is evident that he has advanced through his encounter with this man. Similarly in "20th Century Ghost," Joe Hill uses change of tone to exemplify Alec's growth. At first encounter with the ghost, Imogene, in the movie theater, Alec is very appalled and hesitant. When Imogene tries to talk to him he says, '"Get away,' Alec whispered hoarsely'" (Hill 317). Alec's tone at first is frightened and hesitant, wanting nothing to do with this ghost. When Alec realizes his is growing old and on the brink of retirement, he allows an old friend and movie director refurbish the theater as well as document the process. Since he has spent his life in this theater and obsessed over this girl, when he decides to take the route of dying with her, the tone also changes dramatically. "He leans over her. She turns her face up to his, and closes her eyes... Alec has removed his glasses. He is touching her lightly at the waist" (326). After deciding he wants to die and spend his life with Imogene, the tone shifts from what was once hesitant to one that is full or romance and relief. This shift in the author's tone conveys how Alec has evolved and advanced as a person, and through interaction with the ghost of Imogene, he realizes what he wants in his after life. In both examples, tone is used to display the how interaction with another character has benefited another. Despite not being on the surface, "These emotional meanings must be expressed by a different means-by the words and image chosen, their arrangement, and their context" (Perrine "The Importance of Tone in Interpretation of Literature"). Although a character may not display this on the surface, the author's tone indicated that another character has in fact had a beneficial effect. This is important because it displays the effectiveness of another character, supporting that personal advancement cannot always be achieved alone.

Although the two stories have their differences, both are similar in the way that in both stories there is a beneficial relationship between the ghost and protagonist using the literary device of epiphany. Epiphany is essential to character development, "Characters typically undergo some kind of epiphany (sudden realization) whereupon they adjust their erratic beliefs and practices, and avert a tragic fate" (Ohio University "Character Development"). In "The Lawyer and the Ghost," the protagonist offers the ghost advice that changes the course of his afterlife. At the end of the story, the Lawyer asks the ghost a question. He asks the ghost, "That when you have an opportunity of visiting the fairest spots of earth... you should always return exactly to the very places where you have been most miserable" (Dickens 309). This is eye opening for the ghost, who responds, "it never struck me till now; I'll try a change of air directly' (309).  In an instant the ghost takes this advice and decides to roam different parts of the world, perhaps a part that will bring him joy. The lawyer greatly benefits the ghost by giving him this simple advice, which results in an epiphany for the ghost, making him realize that he is wasting his afterlife dwelling on the past. Similarly in "20th Century Ghost," one character helps another in personal development through an epiphany. Imogene has always had an impact on Alec's life in the story, since he met the ghost at a young age (316). He admired how she chose to spend her afterlife in his theater, spending her time enjoying films. As Alec starts to get older and older, his theater starts to get more and more run down. Knowing that he will likely die very soon, Alec decides to follow the example of Imogene and die in the theater. Imogene died decades before in the same theater while watching the Wizard of Oz. Alec attempts to replicate this, "The Wizard of Oz is ending... the house lights are up, and there is a crowd of people gathered around Alec's body, slumped heavily in his seat. Steven Greenberg is in the aisle, yelping hysterically for someone to bring a doctor" (Hill 325). Alec could have gone out in a variety of ways, but chose to die like Imogene because not only did he admire her, but the way that this ghost spent her entire afterlife experiencing something that she loves-movies. Imogene aided Alec in having an epiphany, which changed the course of his afterlife and further developed his character. Without Imogene to aspire to, Alec would likely never have died doing something he loved, with someone he cares for. Without Imogene, personal development would not be possible.

While the two stories differ in plot, both use word choice to display character development. In "The Lawyer and the Ghost," word choice is used to both persuade the ghost, and show the effectiveness. After the ghost barges in on the lawyer, the lawyer suggests that the ghost find somewhere else to go, but puts in in a persuasive manner. The lawyer suggests, "That when you have an opportunity of visiting the fairest spots of earth- for I suppose space has nothing on you-you should always return exactly to the very places where you have been most miserable" (Dickens 309). The lawyer not only makes traveling the world appealing, but also makes staying around sound undesirable. When using the word "fairest," he suggests to the ghost that the ghost has no limits; he can visit anywhere on earth. Additionally, he describes his living quarters and "miserable," which gives the ghost another reason to leave. Right after hearing this, the ghost exclaims, "Egad, that's very true" (309). The use of the exclamatory word "egad" displays how the ghost has become aware of what the lawyer said is reasonable and something that he had not thought about prior to the argument. This is important because perhaps with lack of word choice used by the lawyer, the ghost would not be able to develop as a character. In "20th Century Ghost," word choice is used to portray the moments that Alec decides his fate and carries out his fate. The ghost of the story, Imogene, died during the screening of "The Wizard of Oz." After refurbishing his theater, Alec is suggested to have "The Wizard of Oz" screen first for the reopening. When he hears this, the author notes, "His forearms prickle with gooseflesh; but he makes no argument" (Hill 325). The word choice used like "prickle" and "gooseflesh" gives the reader an assumption that he recognizes that this was the very film Imogene saw prior to her death. Since he doesn't argue this point, it can also be assumed that he has decided his fate to die like Imogene did. Later in the passage, the author uses indirect characterization, where, "The audience must deduce for themselves what the character is like through the character's thoughts, actions, speech (choice of words, way of talking), looks and interaction with other characters" (Ohio University, "Character Development"). When it comes time for the reopening and the screening of the movie, Alec sits next to an empty seat, saving it for Imogene (325). During the movie, he decides to take his life and go out in style by kissing Imogene. The author comments, "This is the way people dream of being kissed, a movie star kiss" (326). The use of "movie star kiss" relates to the fact the Imogene was once an actress with great potential, but also the fact that Alec's life has ended in a way people can only dream of, and will be spending his life in a Utopia with a woman he loves and the theater he grew up in.

While the two stories may have contrasting plots, when looking at the literary devices present in each story the two become much more relational. When examining tone, epiphany, and word choice in "The Lawyer and the Ghost" and "20th Century Ghost," it is evident that both passages contain the main theme of personal development through ghost encounters. Beyond that, the passages also support the idea that personal development can't always be achieved alone. This is the case for both stories, as both have examples of characters that would be unable to personally develop without the aid of another character.
