It is human nature to be ambitious and want more out of the life you currently have. Greed is a trait that many people have grown to have in our current society, yet it has also become a popular subject of comedy among television shows and comedians. If one were to tune into any type of social media, they would see a variety of humor (not all social media is humor) and when a position of power, wealth, or incredible skill is discussed the comedic banter is plentiful. Doing this however creates a double standard between what we want in life and what we laugh at and make fun of as humans. A position of power can be identified by multiple things in our society, for example, a good wardrobe, strong personality, respect, and even a good physical stature can be seen as success of power among Americans. Many of those categories represent many other categories as well, including money, sex appeal, etc. In the SNL skit tegories represent many other categories as well, including money, sex appeal, etc. In the SNL skit ying to put their kids back on the right track to success in their lives. Chris Farley's character isn't one with a strong and confident personality, his history and background is rather embarrassing, and his appearance isn't respectable either. "Motivational Speaker" portrays hard work and success as an embarrassing and undesirable thing to obtain while rebellion, laziness, and lack of caring are more accepted among American society. This is displayed through the speakers/childrenegories represent many othk of empathy shown by the children for what the speaker has to say. 

Chris Farleydrenegories represent many othk of empathy shown by the children for what the speaker has to say. skit ying to put their kids back on the right track to success in their live addressing the children. His knees are also bent further that what an athletic stance would be and his back is hunched over. Furthermore, Farley's actions are over exaggerated and he aggravates the personal boundaries of the children as he speaks. There are points where Farley can be seen forcefully yelling at the children in order to get his point across. As a speaker whorisintention is to motivate and foster success in children by being a role model and positive influence, Farleyy. skit ying to put their one who is awkward and doesn't seem to connect with the children. His movements and appearance show Farley's character putting in effort to help the children succeed, but the children don't receive his efforts the same way he wanted them too. SNL's spin on this piece makes Farley's character over the top in order to make it relatable and funny to the audience. Since it is exaggerated, it is not necessarily what we would see in a real life scenario. Yet, the basic concepts of a good wardrobe, strong personality, and respect are put in a negative form in order to make the audience laugh about a persona that many people aspire to be in their lives. 

Along with Chris Farley and foster success in children by being a role model and positive influence, Farleyy. sduring Farley's speech. The children were not dressed obscenely like Farley was, instead, they were dressed comfortably in casual clothes, suggesting their content with who they were and what they did. These are items of clothing that SNL picked so they wouldn't stand out in order to make Chris Farley the center of attention. As Farley began his speech in character, the children took very reserved positions on camera. In one shot you can see David Spade, the actor for the son, sitting with his arms crossed. Crossed arms during conversation is a commonly accepted tell that the person is defensive and reserved from the speaker. Furthermore, the woman acting as the daughter was leaning back into the couch with her hands on her knees, suggesting a passive attitude towards Farley as he is speaking. Typically an engaging conversation is one with strong, positive body language such as leaning forward and having your hands and arms relaxed. These SNL actors are displaying the opposite of this in their posture, showing their initial disapproval and disinterest in Farley's character. As Farley approaches the children and positions himself close to their faces, the son covers his face in attempt to avoid Farley's awkward and obnoxious presence. The daughter also displays a look of disgust as she observes the interaction between Farley and the son. These facial expressions and lack of eye contact show even further reasoning to why the children are annoyed and disinterested in Farley and his characters presence. Since SNL portrayed Farley as the success and motivator in the skit, the fact that the children do not care for him shows their lack of interest in success and a bright future, which Farley's character advocates for. 

This comical skit by SNL shows more to the audience than a good laugh. Their ability to make fun of a character in a successful and influential role shows how our society is uncomfortable with success. People all say that success is a big motive in their lives, yet our ability to mock and laugh at someone in a powerful position hints at our content attitude on where weere at in life. Perhaps people believe that they already have all the success they need, so thereeed, so thereat someone in a powerful position hints at our content atti.
