In Kanye West's Power music video one may notice a multitude of artistic elements that went into making the video. While looking at a still frame of 1:14, the viewer will notice a heaven like atmosphere. The viewer will also notice Kanye West standing in the center of the frame, dressed in all black; multiple women and mythical creatures surround Kanye. Each woman or mythical creature is placed below Kanye to show the evident power he has over her.  Women in today's society have always been looked down upon or treated unequally to men.  Women have always been taught to accept that they will not be as powerful as men. They are taught to shrink themselves to make themselves smaller so they do not threaten men.  While looking at the music video for Power, the relationship between a man and a woman become more evident.  In the video Kanye represents men in today's society proving that women have little power when compared to a man and they are seen as nothing more that just objects or tools to enhance a man. 

The layers of women surrounding Kanye show they are nothing but objects that help amplify his power (KanyeWestVEVO). Each woman is uniquely and carefully dressed in a limited amount of sheer almost see-through clothing. The colors they are dressed in make them fade to the background of Kanye's entire black outfit. There are many different types of color schemes, all of which are very plain and non-attention grabbing (KanyeWestVEVO). All the women are wearing either a light salmon, tan, or skin tone color sheer cloth. They are dressed plain, with no jewelry, so they do not stand out or have any sort of feminine power (KanyeWestVEVO). The director made sure the women received some attention, even if it was sexual attention. The attention the women get is not attention to show any of their feminine power, but to show their more sensual side. The attention the women receive is not the same attention Kanye receives, when the viewer looks at Kanye they see a man in power over all of these beautiful half naked women, they do not see women having power over Kanye.  There is one woman with wings that looks to be more powerful than the others, but again no matter how much power she has, she is still placed sitting below a standing Kanye (KanyeWestVEVO). The power she has will still  not amount to that of a man's. 

The women in the video have been physically placed strategically under Kanye. Most of the women can be seen sitting below Kanye none of them stand and show any resistance or power that can amount to Kanye's. The two mythical creatures on the left and right side of Kanye are shown standing, even though they are standing, they are still conforming to the power Kanye has over them (KanyeWestVEVO). All the women below him are thin, with no muscle tone, exaggerating their powerlessness. Kanye's muscles are extremely different. The muscles in his arms are well defined and visible. The muscles in his tightly closed fist are also visible. His muscles and posture give off a tough and hard feel to make him look strong and all-powerful when compared to the women surrounding him. The women are made to look soft and tender, making them look weak and powerless compared to Kanye (KanyeWestVEVO). There is one woman on the top, left side of Kanye's face who is caring a knife.  The knife in her hand is for apparent malicious use against Kanye and his power. It is almost if she is standing up for the women in video even though they will not take a stand with her. Of course, she does not succeed in killing Kanye or reducing any of the power he has over the women in the video.  Yet again showing women may have some power or intentions to rebel, but they will never be able to stand up to the power of a man. 

The direction of all the women in the video is towards the center of the frame, which features Kanye (KanyeWestVEVO).  Every woman in some way is pointing towards Kanye.  For example, the women at the bottom left and right corners of the frame, they use their toes to point up to Kanye. Also, the woman reaching up and out with her arms fully extended, are aimed directly towards Kanye. Most of the women in the frame are looking up to Kanye or reaching out to him, and he refuses to look at them (KanyeWestVEVO). He looks over every female and keeps his eyes locked on the viewer. Even though each woman is practically naked or trying to catch his attention, he still does not break his focus from the viewer (KanyeWestVEVO). He is flaunting how little these naked women mean to him. They are nothing more than beautiful props that have no power that can compare to his power or any mans power.  

The lighting in the piece again shows the unequal amounts of power between men and women. The lighting portrays women as servant-like beings to men.  The two women with horns standing on the left and right sides of Kanye appear to be servants that stand around him to guard, protect, and make him look better or more powerful (KanyeWestVEVO).  The woman below his waist has large wings, has the most light drawn to and around her, and she appears to be the most powerful of all the women (KanyeWestVEVO). Her power still does not amount to Kanye's; if the viewer looks closer one may see how her wings are pointed downwards. They are not flared upward or else they would take away the power of Kanye, the attention would no longer be on him, it would be on her. The director made sure to make it appear as if women had a chance or some sort of power that could be compared with men, but in all reality they still have none, no matter what lights or wings they have.  Therefore, the beautiful woman with the large wings is placed sitting below Kanye in plain clothing with no jewelry. Finally, the women at the bottom of the frame also appear to be servant-like women.  These women in the darker corners of the frame, at the bottom left and right corners, are apparent servants to the man, Kanye.  They both have full chalices of grapes looking up to Kanye, waiting for his approval.

Finally, in this still frame women are again proven to be powerless and just objects to look at.  Women in this still frame are not in the video to show feminine power, they are in the video only for men to look at sexually, and enhance the power of Kanye (KanyeWestVEVO). For example, the two women at the right of Kanye are dressed in nothing but a sheer salmon colored cloth. The cloth is draped over one of the woman's shoulders.  The women are not looking at the viewer or up towards Kanye (KanyeWestVEVO).  They appear to be protecting each other from the view of men.  Also, the woman on the far right of the frame, her body is placed in a sexual position for men to look at. She was placed with her curves and body angles at the perfect view for a man to enjoy.  When a man sees this video they want to be Kanye, they do not see the women as women. Men see women as objects that will make them appear to be more powerful, more Kanye like.

The layers and layers of women in this video maybe seen as beautiful mythical creatures, but nonetheless are still below men in status, worth, and power.  Women are just used to amplify a frame, a video, or a man.  They may have some sort of power, but it is very limited and cannot compare to the amount a man has.  A woman's power has to be contained, so it does not intimidate a man or make the man feel less powerful. Sometimes a way of containing this power is to make a woman only be viewed sexually not mentally.
