By looking at the Star Wars: Revenge of the Sith movie poster, major plot points are apparent within its visual elements. This is especially interesting because the elements in the poster hint at a major plot twist that will entice viewers, and encourage them to see the movie.  The poster uses a combination of directionality, size, character body language, and color scheme use to provide insight into the plot.

When looking at the movie poster art for Star Wars: Revenge of the Sith, the eye is immediately drawn to the dazzling blue light emanating from the lightsabers locked in combat. Both weapons are a bluish color, indicating that the men holding them are Jedi. Already, the movie poster hints at upcoming betrayal within the Jedi.  

From this central light, the eye's attention follows the path of the lightsabers up towards two faces, a man and a woman.  Both of these characters are drawn larger than the other characters, denoting their importance in the story. The woman, Padme, is looking outward towards the left edge of the poster, which leads the eye towards a little green alien with deep wrinkles. This alien, Yoda, is a 700-year old senior member of the Jedi Council, and rarely leaves the Jedi Temple because his presence on the Council is paramount. Despite both his age and position, the poster shows Yoda in full battle mode with his lightsaber drawn. This suggests that something terrible happens, forcing even the eldest Jedi into action. Following the direction of Yoda's lightsaber leads the viewer to the right side of the poster and focuses in on another character, Obi-Wan Kenobi. Obi-Wan is also drawn on a larger scale than other characters, suggesting that he too is a key character in the story. Next to Obi-Wan, on the far right, is another Jedi. Directly underneath them both is a sneering, wrinkly old man. This man is placed directly next to the title, Revenge of the Sith, suggesting that he is the missing Sith Lord that the Jedi have been desperately searching for in previous episodes in the series. His placement on the poster as directly underneath the two Jedi's gazes hint at the notion that he has been hiding underneath their noses the entire time.

The path of the second blue lightsaber leads to a man in the center of the poster. This man, Anakin Skywalker, is a Jedi, but is drawn in the poster with a stern expression on his face. Anger is a very atypical emotion for a Jedi because it begins the path to the dark side.  Showing Anakin in this way suggests that he may be the traitor, and thusly one of the characters fighting in the battle featured directly beneath his face. Anakin's face is enveloped in a shadow from the enormous black helmet looming above him, further reinforcing this theory of Anakin's impending betrayal. It seems as if the shadow is about to eclipse the light. It represents the rising darkness side overcoming the remaining light inside Anakin as he makes the decision to abandon the Jedi. The placement of the mask behind Anakin foreshadows his transformation from Jedi Knight to his new identity as Darth Vader, Lord of the Sith. The black mask is also just out of sight of the other Jedi, symbolizing a looming threat, as if they are about to be stabbed in the back.

As described in the previous claim, color elements chosen in the poster provide hints for what is to come in the movie. The dominant colors chosen for this movie poster are blue, red and black. Blue light is emanating from the middle of the poster, but seems to be less powerful than the darker colors of red and black that overtake the poster. Black is often representative of sinister demeanor, while red is historically synonymous with anger, blood, and death. Black is the color of the dark side of the force, and red is the color of their lightsabers. With both colors so prominent in the poster, the designer is providing a huge clue as to the movie's plot. It suggests that the darkness of the Sith is taking over the light of the Jedi.

The Star Wars Revenge of the Sith movie poster carefully uses visual elements such as object placement and size, color, and character movement and expression, to provide the viewer with an insight into the plot in this movie. The elements chosen by the artist provide a progression for the eye to follow that provides a glimpse of what to come in the movie. The color palette included in the reveal the overall emotion felt in the third installment of the Star Wars series.
