In the "Introduction to Poetry" by Billy Collins, the speaker makes an argument concerning poetry.  His point is that not enough appreciation is given to poems anymore.  He argues that poems are read just to find out what the meaning is instead of separating and deliberating on particular elements.  Well, since the speaker is so passionate about readers relishing poetry, I have decided to dissect this particular poem and appreciate each component and the entire piece as a whole.  

The poem begins with "I ask them to take a poem;" reading the first line of this poem I wanted to know who the speaker meant by "them" (Collins).  Is "them" referring to everyone or is there more of a focused group.  I made an inference that his audience would be anyone studying literature, because reflecting on my past English classes, the main goal of reading poems was to find the meaning of it.  Otherwise, I would figure that the speaker is directing his argument towards a general audience who has an interest in poetry.  

In addition, the speaker tells "them" to take "a poem."  Considering this, I understand that the speaker feels any poem can be appreciated.  Another thing I noticed is that Collins personifies "a poem" at the end of the poem.  He says that they "tie the poem to chair with rope" and "torture a confession out of it" and "beat it with a hose" (Collins).  He wants to portray a poem as more than just words on a piece of paper, as a person with feelings.  He, like the speaker, wants the reader to have more admiration for a poem.  One last point that stood out of the poem was the speaker's turning point.  In the sixth stanza, the speaker's tone changes as he expresses how a poem is "abused" in order to get the meaning from it.  This shows the speaker's empathy for the appreciation of poetry and contributes to the personification of a poem as he seeks pity for the character of a poem.

The speaker goes on telling them what to do with the poem.  He goes into detail how to value a poem including sensory imagery, metaphors, and similes.  First, he directs them to hold the poem up to the light.  He wants them to see the poem thoroughly, seeing all its components as if it were transparent.  Afterwards, the speaker orders them to "press an ear against its hive" (Collins).  When I think of pressing my ear against a hive, I think of hearing the bees doing their work and deliberating what it takes to create the hive.  This is what the speaker wants them to do with the poem, listen to the author's choice of words and contemplate on how that goes into forming the poetry.  

Next, and most important, the speaker wants them to feel the poem.  He continues to tell them to "drop a mouse into a poem and watch him probe his way out" (Collins).  Probe is defined as physically exploring something with the hands or carefully examining or investigating something.  He also tells them to "walk inside the poem's room and feel the walls for a light switch," the same concept applies.  The speaker simply wants them to scrutinize each part of the poem in order to discover the main point; however, he puts it in deeper terms whereas the poem is a maze or a dark room.  Finally, the speaker wants them to "waterski across the surface of a poem" and "wave at the author's name on the shore" (Collins).  This set of directions from the speaker was not easy to figure out but because they came last, it is clear to see that he modestly wants them to enjoy the poem collectively and give the utmost credit to the author of the work.

From meticulously dismembering the "Introduction to Poetry," one can conclude that the speaker argues that a poem should not be sought out only for its meaning but to be wholly appreciated throughout the different elements and components that collectively come together to make the piece.  According to the speaker, any type poem should be treated somewhat like a person.  Instead of being tied and beaten for a confession, it should be seen clearly, heard thoughtfully, and understood completely by any form of audience.  Finally, the speaker feels that the poem should be delighted entirely with full admiration to the creator.
