At first glance this picture seems very simple and appears to be a very black and white photo with its main concept being obesity. In the photograph there are two very different men standing together side by side. The man that is on the left is in very good physical shape, and he is very tan. There is a hole where his stomach is supposed to be and inside the hole there are two very well dressed workers looking at a paper. Behind those men, there is a large very clean bright silver machine being worked on by a third man in clean white cloths. In one of his hands he is holding an apple and in the other he has a weight. The second man standing in the picture is very over weight, his skin is very pail and pink in places. Like the man on the left, he too has a hole in his stomach but in his hole there is a very different scene. There are four men in dirty uniforms all performing different tasks on a machine the looks the same as the one in the man on the left, but this machine is very worn down and is a dirty rusty color. The obese man is holding a hamburger in his left and in his right hand he is holding a container of French fries. (Health Advertising 3) 

When most people look at this picture they fail to observe the deeper message. They see the two men side by side and believe that the main concept of the photograph is that if you eat well and exercise properly your body will run like a clean well maintained machine. However, if you eat poorly and do not exercise enough your body will run like a rust covered worn down machine. Many of the viewers fail to closely analyze this picture and realize that there is a deeper message inside both of the men's stomachs. 

The deeper message that is hidden in this picture talks about how a person's health can be affected by their social status. In the world that we live in today, everyone wants to have a good high paying job so that they can have the money to take care of themselves by doing things such as buying a gym membership and being able to afford to eat healthier alternatives to fast food. The man on the left is portraying someone from the upper class, or the white collar workers. The first clue to this is the workers that are inside his stomach. The two workers that are standing in front of the machine are wearing very nice suits and are looking at a paper. (Health Advertising 3) By drawing these two men with expensive suits on and looking at a document, the artist shows that these men are the higher up workers because they can afford to wear these suits, and it is common to have supervisors look at documents not the workers. The third man is wearing perfectly clean pure white cloths showing that in his job he isn't required to do very much demanding or "dirty" work. All of the colors in the man on the left are very pure bright colors. Such as, the machine in his stomach is a pure silver and the clean bright colors of the workers. To painters color choices can be everything, pure colors can be used to symbolize wealth and cleanliness, because when you are wealthier you don't do any of the demanding labor, and you can stay clean.  The weight and apple in the man's hand also show that this man has money. If you are poor, your health isn't your first priority and it can be very challenging to go out and buy expensive fresh fruits and vegetables, along with trying to afford the price of a gym membership, when you can go to a fast food restaurant and save your money.

On the other hand, the man on the right is shown as someone from the middle class or a blue collar worker. The workers that are in his stomach are all wearing dirty worn down cloths and they are doing very labor intensive tasks to maintain the machine. The machine itself is drawn with much duller and rusty colors because they can't afford to have the new pure silver machine, or to maintain their current machine. (Health Advertising 3) The rusty colors that are used in this man's stomach show that he doesn't get to supervise like the other man, but he has to do all of the "dirty" work. Doing the harder dirtier work leads to his cloths and himself getting dirty through his work day, just like pure colors mix and blend to create dull and rusty colors. The fast food that he is holding in his hands also comments on his social status because is very cheap and can be accessed in a hurry. Unlike the white color workers who can work less hours with a higher pay, blue color workers are forced to work very long strenuous days to afford their daily lives. It is much easier to go home after working a long day and eat cheap fast food that was made for you in minutes then it is to go out and buy fresh foods that cost more and require you to spend another thirty minutes to an hour of your day trying to make a healthy meal.

There is always more than one message or main concept in a picture or advertisement. Many viewers fail to notice the second or even third messages that are buried in the picture. The artist of this picture was very clever by drawing in a way that if you don't closely analyze the picture you will not realize that there is a deeper message. The artist used very subtle hints to show the second message in the picture, such as the foods the two men are holding, the workers and what the workers are wearing in their stomachs, and the colors that the artist used for the machines.
