The oil painting, Paris Street; Rainy Day (Calliebotte), can be analyzed in three different perspectives. First perspective is observing the colors that artist used in this picture to find out the meaning of these dark color usage. Second perspective is observing the meanings of objects. Last perspective is observing mood of the scene by people's posture and eyes focus. By examining these three perspectives, we can see that the artist tries to show the gloomy Paris Street to interpret people's lethargic attitude. This is important because gloomy air of the Paris Street is contrary to the image of Paris as a central commercial area

Artist uses the gray color to show the gloomy air of Paris Street. The color of the umbrella and clothes of the people in the street are the example of gray color. These two things are located at many points so that these help to create dark tone of the painting. 

Also he uses primary colors like yellow and red to paint the buildings Red and yellow are very vivid and light colors. However, by changing the intensity of color to lower level, primary colors can also create dull and smoky mood. The artist also uses different chroma to describe a fog-shrouded street. ky is painted with unsaturated colors. By painting large portion of the painting with low chroma, artist can successfully create a grim mood. Also highly saturated colors used to paint the couple in front of the painting grab viewers' attention on the couple's faces. They have lethargic and sad faces which makes the mood of street gloomyIf the artist intended to drawlively Paris Street, he would use colors with high chroma and fully saturated colors to paint a street. 

Objects that are included in this painting help to create the depressing and bad climate of treet which make a gloomy atmosphere. Most of the people hold umbrella; it is raining in Paris Street even if it is difficult to see the raindrop itself. Also by looking at the shaky and uneven shade under the streetlamp make rainy day. Also the streetlamp itself is turned off which makes the area around dark. ong coats that people wear are another example to describe climate of street. eft end of this picture, there is a four-wheeled carriage. Two men on the carriages are only people who do not put up umbrellas. Therefore shows a dark mood by creating a miserable situation of the men who have to drive carriages in spite of the rain. Magnificent buildings which are painted very poorly due to the depressing climate also create a grim mood of the painting. If the artist tried to paint energetic Paris Street, he would draw more carriages and draw lighted streetlamps. 

Gloomy atmosphere can be expressed by the spot which people's eyes are bound. Everyone except the couple in the foreground of the painting is not facing the viewers. A couple is the only people who have clearly painted faces. This makes viewer's focus to be fixed on the facial expression of a couple. They have no focus on the eyes and are in a state of impassivity. Their faces add the depressive mood of the painting. The person next to the streetlamp sets his face toward ground, but nothing is on the ground. Generally, walking a street by lowering one's head shows lethargic condition. People are in clear focus and see front when they have happy and exciting feelings. Comparing location of people's eyes when they are in good mood, it is easy to figure out that focus of people in the painting help to uplift dark atmosphere of the painting. The eye line of the people is one of the easy traits to miss. Even if it is a trivial change, the eye line contains indirect meaning which is important enough to create a mood of the painting.

Paris is the capital city of France which is one of the most populous city in the world. Especially, around the metropolitan area there are many busy commercial streets. These streets are very live and energetic. On the other hand, the artist described Paris Street as very gloomy street by using three different perspectives: colors, objects, and people's eye line. Even if viewer's knowledge of work is on the side on nonexistence, viewers can catch the gloomy atmosphere and people's feeling in Paris Street by observing the work in detail since Paris Street; Rainy day (Calliebotte) is painted in direct way of expression. The main idea that we have to draw from observing different factors of the painting is the contrasting image between general Paris Street in people's mind and gloomy mood of street and people that artist shows in the painting. People can focus more on Paris Street; Rainy Day (Calliebotte) because the artist's different point of seeing Paris Street which is against the bias of people. For this reason, viewers will think one more time about the purpose that artist intended in the painting. If the painting was no different from any other energetic landscape painting of Paris Street, it would not be as famous as it is today.
