This painting can be observed in three major perspectives. First, observing the color affiliation that artist used in this picture to find out the meaning of these dark color usage. Second, observing meaning of the location and kinds of goods, and of background. Lastly, observing mood of the scene by people's posture and eyes focus. The artist chose bad weather, dark color and gloomy mood to describe the Paris Street to interpret people's lethargic attitude which is contrary to the image of central commercial area of Paris Street.

Paris street is one of the world famous main street. In this painting, artist uses the gray and blue affiliated color which is a best choice to show the gloomy air of Paris Street. For example, color of umbrella and clothe is unified to one same kind of color which emphasizes the unity of dark tone. On the contrary, colors of buildings are yellow and red which are vivid and light colors. Although these colors are not same affiliation, it does not stick out unnaturally. Since general color of the painting is gray and blue affiliated colors, primary colors mix well with dark colors in the painting. Artist not only uses depth perspective but also depth of color to express three dimensional effects. Dull shades and foggy effect are used to express people and buildings at the back of painting. Vivid tone is used to show closeness and emphasize people in front which concentrate viewer's attention. Likewise, kind of color, and control of thickness can show dynamic expression. 

Not only colors but also goods and backgrounds in this picture help to find out new hidden facts in this painting. First of all, we can notice climate condition by goods that people use. Even if we cannot clearly identify the rainy scene, we can figure out the rain from the umbrellas that people hold. Another way of finding out climate condition is looking the background. The besprent shade under the streetlamp shows that shade is not even. It is really shaky by constant rain. Left end of this picture, there is a four-wheeled carriage and most of the buildings have low floors (not skyscrapers) and built in ancient French style of architecture. This reflects the time period of 1800s in Paris. Likewise, without textual information of the painting, we can obtain high quality information just by observing the picture. Also, if we closely look at the background, we can notice the blurry gray sky. Even if it is not clear enough to identify the time slot, crowded people in the street explain that the painting is representing cloudy daytime. It shows that daytime also can be depressing as much as night. 

We can grasp general atmosphere by the spot to which people's eyes are bound. Everyone except the couple in the foreground of the painting is not facing the viewers. A couple is the only people that we can see the face clearly. This makes viewers to focus on the facial expression of them. They have blank look away and be in a state of impassivity. Their faces adds the depressive factor to this painting. The person next to the streetlamp sets his face toward ground, but nothing is on the ground. Comparing location of people's eyes with our everyday life expression of people, we can understand the depressing and lethargic mood which uplifts dark atmosphere of the painting. Eye line of the people is one of the easy traits to miss. Even if it is a trivial change, eyeline contains indirect meaning in it. This is a good example to show how many new things that we can find out from the observation. 

In conclusion, even if viewer's knowledge of work is on the side on nonexistence, viewers can catch the gloomy atmosphere and people's feeling in Paris Street by observing the work in detail since Paris Street; Rainy day (1877) is painted in direct way of expression. The main idea that we have to draw from oberving different factors of the painting is the contrast of dynamic image inbetween the general image of Paris street and gloomy mood of street and people in ths picture. 
