The Arnolfini Portrait was painted in 1434 by Jan van Eyck.  At this time period the Northern Renaissance was categorized by "... an interest in the observable physical appearance of the world and the place of humans in that world.  This, rather than stylistic considerations or an interest in antiquity, is what justifies speaking of a Northern Renaissance" (Kloss 94-95).Van Eyck used oil-based paint as the medium for his artwork.  Oil based paint dries slowly so that it gives time for the painter more time to mark adjustments and make all kinds of details, and the paint has a glowing way about it that lets the artist "to capture rich jewel-like colors and subtle changes in textures and surfaces" (Stokstad 596).  Painted in Bruges the painting indicated a wealthy Italian patron who was originally from Lucca in Tuscany (Hendricks). "The location Bruges, at the time perhaps the most important trading center in the powerful Duchy of Burgundy" (Art Enc). A lot of trade went down between Tuscany for its wool products and Flanders for its tapestries. When looking at this painting most connect the theme to marriage because of the couple holding hands but there is no truth to the actual relationship. On a different perspective one could see a business deal going down between the man and woman in the painting. By the symbolism and details of the painting, wealth is shown to represent an important business deal going on.

A viewer first lays their eyes on the woman in the painting because of her fine clothing and its radiant color. The green dress looks to be fine with fur and lots of fabric and back in 1434 if a lady were wearing fur it put her in a high social class because of the cost of such material. The gold jewelry shows the wealth and elegance of a lady. The woman's eyes lay in the direction of the man's hand gesture as if he was saying something important. When someone talks with their hands it is to make a point. The painter would not just randomly paint the hand gesture just to tell the viewers the man talks with his hands a lot, no it is to show that the meeting between the people is very significant. The man also has put on his best clothes because of the big fur coat and his large hat. The lining in the fur coat really shows how thick the fabric is and even today it is know that more fabric equals more money. The colors are an interesting thing to look at because at that time such distinct colors were only wore by the wealthy people. Rags made of cheap material shows the how little someone could have and what they can and cannot afford. Since the word rags was mention it is clear to see that the couple in this painting look clean and well-kept unlike a noble class would be in that time period. In that area it was mention before that it was big on trading. By the details of the painting the people look to be in a bedroom. On one side of the paining there is a bed that is red and what is really catching is the drapes beside the bed because those too have been painted to look thick. Back in the 1400s the bedroom was a social room instead of private. For such occasions most people would look their best when being around a crowd of people.  Going to the center of the painting rest a mirror. In the reflection of the mirror it indicates two more people in the room. The mirror gives a double sided view to show that this couple is not alone which proves the fact that the bedroom is not used for privacy. The man in the painting does have his eyes looking in the direction of the people that the mirror provides. If the gesture of the hand was to speak about the room it could illustrate the wealth of the items that the room possess. All of these details say that these people are wealthy and money is all about business. When in a trading town it is easy for one to assume that a deal is being made because of all the nice things that the room holds. 

The items in the room all symbolize that this meeting is important. The painting shows two pairs of shoes have been taken off. Normally that symbolizes a sacred moment. Also by the way the couple's faces are hard and no emotions are shown instead of what some say "lovey-dovey" which is considered a romantic look. This states that something more serious is going on that needs full concentration and attention. There are three oranges in the painting which are sometimes overlooked. "The oranges which can be seen near the window were a subtle symbol of wealth, this is because they were not native to the region and would have been imported from a warmer climate" (Hendricks). Oranges represent wealth because they are expensive fruit just to be laying around. The chandelier has one candle which usually takes on the act of a religious significance. The chandelier also represents wealth because to have such a fixture for lighting back in that time was nothing near cheap.  For something to be sacred and religious one can only think of the importance of this gathering. Back to trading and wealth, if the room is to be shown off for profit and the area is one of the biggest trading centers it can be a symbol in itself that a business trade is happening. 

By the symbolism and details of the items in the painting it can be concluded that a business trade is happening. "Nonetheless, the stained glass window, chandelier, ornate mirror and oriental carpet, as well as the groom's well-manicured hands and the expensive oranges on the side dresser, are visible indicators of significant wealth" (Art Enc). The shoes, candle, and history for the time of the painting show the reasons for why a trade would be happening. The marriage theme is so easy to collect from a first glance, but when no one can verify the relationship of the couple then many more conclusions can be made.  
