The semi-autobiographical tale "The Yellow Wallpaper" by Charlotte Perkins Gilman tells of a woman experiencing a nervous breakdown and her husband's treatment of the situation. Written in 1890, the work was originally published in The New England Magazine in 1892. Because this short story was written over 100 years ago, it contains many elements that are not commonly understood by the general public. The author includes time specific features such as feminine hysteria, and the oppression of women, in both the workplace and in marriage, in order to demonstrate the lack of rights that women had until the end of the progressive era, which ended in the early 1920's. 

Throughout the nineteenth century, hysteria was once an extremely common diagnosis for women in the United States as well as Europe. Hysteria is "characterized by nervous, eccentric, and erratic behavior"(Bucke). Rather than being viewed as a bad and immoral woman, they could maintain their reputation by receiving a diagnosis of hysteria and committing themselves to an asylum. Although for many, this was not actually thought of as a disease. It was simply a way for cultures to "[make] sense of women's changing roles"(Briggs 246). While it was common for women to be institutionalized, there was another option, which is the treatment used in "The Yellow Wallpaper".  It is called the "rest cure" and was invented by Dr. Silas Weir Mitchell. This treatment "usually lasted six to eight weeks [and] it involved complete isolation from friends and family"("Rest Cure"). Essentially, it was enforced bed rest. This way of treating patients was usually administered to outspoken and independent women because its implicit point was to break the patients will causing them to become compliant members of society. While this form of treatment kept women out of asylums, many thought that the rest cure was often worse than the actual disease. In "The Yellow Wallpaper", the narrators husband John places her in a room where she is told to stay and not perform any sort of activity. Within the room she writes a journal but promptly hides it like a secret when anyone enters the room. John tells her that she has a "nervous condition" and that she must "lie down ever so much now... and to sleep all [she] can"(Gilman 161). She remarks often throughout the story that she must be tired due to her "temporary nervous depression" and that she "never used to be so sensitive"(154). This woman's husband has basically led her to believe that she has a strong will and craves independence because she has a mental disease. She is complaint to his wishes and exclaims, "John is so pleased to see me improve"(162). Only further reinforcing that this treatment is in fact more for his satisfaction than it is for hers. "Feminist scholars argue that the rest cure reinforced an archaic and oppressive notion that women should submit unquestioningly to male authority because it was good for their health"(Briggs 246). As seen in the story, the narrator's sole desire to get better stems from her continued need of approval from her husband, which is reinforced by from the time periods expectations. 

Historically, women retained very small and insignificant roles within a marriage. Many women were around for the sole purpose of providing their husbands with children if they so wished. Typically, "The wife was expected to be of good temperament so that the marital home would be happy"("History of Marriage"). In the 1890's, women were just beginning to gain some rights and responsibilities in a marriage. Middle-high class women often managed the help around the home and actually cared for their own children rather than having someone come in to take over after childbirth. Unfortunately, even though things were changing, "a husband was first and foremost the leader of the home [and] was the ultimate decision maker"("History of Marriage"). Throughout the story, John proves this standard by being overpowering and slyly asserting his dominance over her and simply blames it on her "condition". Time after time the narrator talks about how all she wants to do is get better for her husband, and not disobey his wishes. After little improvement in her health, she writes "John says if I don't pick up faster he shall send me to Weir Mitchell in the fall"(Gilman 158). This reference is to Dr. Silas Weir Mitchell who first prescribed the previously mentioned rest cure and was known for being very strict and following the isolation portion of the treatment seriously. In this passage, John is asserting his dominance and letting her know that if she doesn't take some initiative, she will not be allowed see him or her child. She accepts his treatment because she thinks that it proves his love for her and because obeying the husband is exactly what the wife is meant to do. After all, the room she was placed in "...was a nursery first, and then a playroom and gymnasium..."(155). While she never directly says that his attitude towards her is like a child, through his overbearing comments and placement of her into a children's play room, it is evident that he does not hold her to the standards of a decision making adult. While it was common for women to be oppressed by their husbands during the progressive era, it does not mean that they deserved it. Women would often try and lose from this image by attempting to attain real money making jobs, but that was considered breaking free from the norm, which was highly looked down upon.

What was considered normal for women in the 1890's would be far from desirable in today's modern world. "Middle- and upper-class women could help, in some cases, with a family business, but generally, the economy and the society dictated that women should work in the home, taking care of home and hearth"(Radek). Society viewed women as unable to work and not worthy of intellect. Yes, women were educated, and spent a lot of time reading and writing. Unfortunately though "physicians believed that if a woman became too scholarly, her uterus would become dysfunctional, possibly leading to madness"(Radek). While this obviously is not true as proven by the amazing women in the world today, that was the common sentiment in the world that the Charlotte Perkins Gilman lived. The narrator ached to become an active member of society. But she was "absolutely forbidden to "work"... [She] believed that congenial work, with excitement and change, would do [her] good"(Gilman 154). The "work" is written in quotations to help signify that while it is all that women can really do at the time, it is not challenging and unlike the jobs that men could get. The narrator was confined to the room and told to not even lift a finger. Women were already restricted on their responsibilities but with the addition of the rest cure, absolutely everything was stripped away from her. The narrator loses almost every right possible and with the addition of the rest cure, at the end of the day is not even allowed to do the most basic of chores, take care of her child. 

In the end, the narrator finally escapes the tortures that she encountered within the room, but it does not excuse the treatment that she received for the duration of her stay. Charlotte Perkins Gilman wonderfully illustrated the struggles and insanity that women endured during the progressive era in her short story "The Yellow Wallpaper". While all these things have changed today, it is important to remember that things were not always so easy for women; whether it was the easy diagnosis of a bogus disease, being oppressed by men, or being able to work as anything other than a housewife. Women's rights have greatly improved since then, but Charlotte Perkins Gilman eloquently provides a look into the past. 
