It is human nature to be ambitious and want more out of the life you currently have. This idea has become very popular in those who are identified as a success or thoroughly working towards it. It has also become a popular subject of comedy among television shows and comedians. If one were to tune into any type of social media, they would see a variety of humor (not all social media is humor) and when a position of power, wealth, or incredible skill is discussed it is not uncommon to hear a joke in someones dialogue. Making funny jokes about success however creates a double standard between what we want in life and what we laugh at and make fun of as humans. 

A position of power or success can be identified by multiple things, for example, a good wardrobe, a strong personailty, respect, and even a good physical stature or appearance can be seen as success among the American public. Implicit in these observable adjectives, can include money, sex appeal, and like-ability. In the SNL skit, "Motivational Speaker," you can observe Chris Farley, as he portrays a motivational speaker with an ironically styled wardrobe and aggressive stances. Furthermore, the children can be seen in the video with an observable, nonchalant attitude and obvious discomfort towards the speaker.  "Motivational Speaker" Uses the speakers/children's appearance, the lack of empathy shown by the children, and the irony of the 

speaker's message to portray hard work and success as an embarrassing and undesirable thing to obtain while rebellion, laziness, and lack of caring as a more acceptable concept among American youth.

Chris Farley's character, Matt Foley, puts forward an effort to help the children succeed, but the children don't receive his efforts the same way he intends them. Foley's outfit is noticeably mismatched and unprofessional. Foley is wearing a solid green tie with a white shirt and flannel jacket (Saturday Night Live). It is obvious that Foley is trying to come off as a professional with his selected attire. Yet, his choice of clothing is lack luster and does not give the impression of success that he intends it to be. Typically a person who is considered an expert and speaks to others about success would not dress the counterpart of it. Furthermore Foley's actions are over exaggerated and he aggravates the personal boundaries of the children as he speaks. In the photo Foley can be seen forcefully yelling at the children in order to get his point across (Saturday Night Live). Yelling in order to get your point across is not something that is seen as acceptable by others in most situations. Foley's character is a speaker who's intention is to motivate and foster success in children by being a role model and positive influence. However, Foley's character, as seen in the photo, comes off as one who is awkward, extremely assertive, and doesn't seem to connect with the children. Foley's character is over the top in order to make it funny to the audience. Since it is exaggerated, it is not necessarily what we would see in a real life scenario. Yet, the basic concepts of a good wardrobe, strong 

personality, and respect are ironically subverted in order to make the audience laugh about traits that many people aspire to obtain in their lives. 

Along with Chris Farley's performance, the actors who played as the children displayed disgust and disinterest during Matt Foley's speech. In the photo, the children were not dressed ridiculously like Foley was, instead, they were dressed comfortably in casual clothes (Saturday Night Live), suggesting they are content with who they were and what they do. The clothing in this photo clearly shows a difference between the children and Matt Foley. This difference between the two sides suggests that Foley's idea of success is something that people particularly don't care about. In the photo showing , the children took very reserved positions on camera. In one shot you can see David Spade, the actor playing the son, sitting with his arms crossed (Saturday Night Live). Crossed arms during conversation is a commonly accepted tell that the person is defensive and reserved toward a speaker. Furthermore, the woman acting as the daughter was leaning back into the couch with her hands on her knees (Saturday Night Live), suggesting a passive attitude towards Foley as he is speaking. Typically an engaging conversation is one with strong, positive body language such as leaning forward and having your hands and arms relaxed. These SNL actors are displaying the opposite of this in their posture, showing their initial disapproval and disinterest in Foley's speech. In the photo Foley approaches the children and positions himself close to their faces, the son covers his face in attempt to avoid Farley's awkward and obnoxious presence. The daughter also displays a look of disgust as she observes the interaction between Foley and the son. These facial expressions and lack of eye contact show even further reasoning to why the children are annoyed and disin

terested in Farley and his characters presence. Typically eye contact and a look of interest are qualities you see when having personal conversations with other people. The fact that the children do not care for him shows their lack of interest in Foley's speech and what he is advocating for. The children's lack of interest show their overall disapproval of Foley's characteristic of success. 

SNL used a combination of both Foley's ironically impressioned outfit and the reactions of the children in this skit to portray a false idea of what success is. The utilization of these elements in the photos help back up the idea that success is not a sought after thing in society. Rather, success is not a necessity in life, only a luxury that people don't need.
