"The Necklace" by Guy de Maupassant is a story about a woman named Mme. Loisel who loves extravagant items, but is too poor to actually have these items. This love for luxuries items causes Mme. Loisel and her husband to fall into debt for ten years. The debt caused Mme. Loisel to work very laborious jobs. These jobs cause Mme. Loisel to look older and caused her to have a hunch in her back. The debt and her current condition could have all been avoided if Mme. Loisel was honest, humble, and happy with her life. These three concepts where shown about how if a person does not follow the three concepts then the consequences can be severe. 

The concepts of being humble was shown through the pride of Mme. Loisel as her pride made her think that she deserved the best things. Mme. Loisel is shown in the beginning that she thought that she should not be living in a life where she is so financially poor. Mme. Loisel felt that she was "... born for all the delicacies and all the luxuries..." (22) that life had to offer. This feeling that she had caused her to suffer greatly, which lead to her and her husband's predicament. Mme. Loisel's pride made her want to get new clothing and jewels because she wanted to look good for a party her husband help to go to. This was Mme. Loisel's opportunity to be part of the upper class and so she did not want to look poor. She told her husband that '... there's nothing more humiliating than to look poor among other women who are rich." (24) This pride to not look poor made Mme. Loisel to go to her rich friend Mme. Forestier for a jewel. Then as Mme. Loisel was looking for a jewel she finds the necklace that would seal her fate. Then after the party was over Mme. Loisel loses the necklace and the 10 years of hard labor happens. 

After the 10 years of paying debt Mme. Loisel is finished and then meets Mme. Forestier. The meeting ends badly for Mme. Loisel as when she reveals her secret to Mme. Forestier. Mme. Loisel learns that the necklace was only five hundred francs. This amount was nowhere near the value of the necklace that Mme. Loisel used to replaces Mme. Forestier's necklace. This entire situation was avoidable if Mme. Loisel was just humble. Mme. Loisel's husband told Mme. Loisel that she could have just used flowers. This would have help Mme. Loisel avoid her entire situation but she refused that solution from her husband because her pride did not want to let herself look poor. This pride is the reason Mme. Loisel lived her life as she did and this shows the reader that one should be humble. A person that if humble can avoid trouble and not end up in a quagmire like Mme. Loisel

The next concept that the story shows through Mme. Loisel is that one should always be honest with others. Mme. Loisel did not tell the truth to Mme. Forestier and because of this dishonesty Mme. Loisel and her husband wasted 10 years of their life of paying back notes, ruinous obligation, and lenders. Mme. Loisel could have avoid those ten years if she was just honest with Mme. Forestier. Mme. Forestier would have told Mme. Loisel that the necklace "... was worth at most five hundred francs..." (28), but Mme. Loisel did not. Mme. Loisel's dishonesty caused her to pay back thirsty-six thousand francs and also the interest money to people that loaned money to Mme. Loisel's life. The dishonesty also caused Mme. Loisel to lose her beauty due to hard, physical work and her husband to compromise "... all the rest of his life..." (26). This life that Mme. Loisel and her husband took could have been avoided if Mme. Loisel just had told the truth about the fate of the necklace. This shows the reader that honesty is something that everyone should do as honesty will help make the consequences less severe

The last concept that the story shows is to be happy with her life. This concept is a concept that Mme. Loisel did not follow. Mme. Loisel was described to being "... unhappy as through she had really fallen from her proper station." (22) This description tells the reader that Mme. Loisel did not live a happy life and this was all because she did not feel she fit in with her current life. This feeling of unhappiness made her also think about how her house should look like if she was of the upper class. Then these feeling become apparent to the husband so the husband decided to get an invitation to a very high class party. The invitation was something the husband hoped she would be delighted, but "... instead of being delighted..." (23) Mme. Loisel was full of disdain. Mme. Loisel was unhappy because she did not have anything that she thought was appropriate for this party. This thinking caused the rest of the story to happen and the end of the story could have been avoided if Mme. Loisel was just happy with her life. Mme. Loisel being happy with her life would not make the husband get the invitation and without the invitation the ending of the story would not happen. Mme. Loisel would not have to go to her friend for a necklace and she would not have to replace the necklace after losing the original. Then Mme. Loisel would not lose her beauty or do back-breaking work to repay the debt that she had to pay back for buying the necklace. This unhappiness shows the reader that a person should be happy with their life because if they are not then they will just want stuff. This wanting of stuff would lead them to trouble as they cannot find happiness.

In conclusion the story "The Necklace" by Guy de Maupassant tells a story of how being humble, happy with your life, and being honest is a better way to live. Living a life of these three concepts will help a person avoid terrible trouble. A person that is humble can avoid thinking that they deserve better enjoy their life as it is. A person that is happy with their life will not search for something that is impossible to get and get into trouble. Lastly a person that is honest can avoid putting themselves in a worse situation if they are just honest.
