The Yellow Wallpaper by Charlotte Perkins Gilman is a short story heavily influenced by the science and attitudes in 19th century America. Although a time praised for its inventions and discoveries of the Industrial Revolution, this time period was primarily male dominant, which left little room for women to excel outside of the household. This status caused many women to feel weak and worthless and often led to breakdowns from the power struggle they experienced. This historical context is seen throughout The Yellow Wallpaper.  The context suggests that 19th century female social status, Female Hysteria, and the Rest Cure emphasize the theme of female inferiority within the text.

Men and women in the 19th century had distinct roles and behaviors that distinguished them from one another. Men were taught to be strong and hardworking while women were to be domestic and uphold the household.  In addition, women were taught to be inferior to men and not to develop mail traits such as "aggression, independence, self assertion, and curiosity" (Rosenberg 656). These distinct differences among 19th century gender roles are apparent within The Yellow Wallpaper. The main character is sure that she is ailing from some sort of disease. Yet her husband, a physician, insists on following his prescribed protocol and ensures her that nothing is wrong. The narrator also explains that her brother, also a physician, agrees with her husband and believes nothing is wrong too. Both male figures in the narrator's life have determined her life's course, ignoring her concerns and possible solutions. She disagrees with their prescribed treatment, but finds herself unable to voice her opinion. As the short story progresses, the narrator attempts to talk to her husband in order to express her concern about her condition. While trying to talk to her husband, he, yet again, ignores her wish to treatment and search for other options. She " remain[s] a child-woman, never developing the strengths and skills of adult autonomy" as her husband treats his wife like a child by talking to her in a patronizing tone and urging her to go back to sleep (Rosenberg 656). The female narrator is a dependent ward, with no male figure ever acknowledging her. "But what is one to do" as a 19th century woman- unfortunately, nothing less than to remain silent and abide by her male physician's orders (Gilman 154). Over all, the woman's status as a female emphasizes how little her opinions matter and how little she will be able to succeed in life outside of the household. She will forever be inferior to her male counterparts, due to her gender.

The narrator of The Yellow Wallpaper suffers from a case of Female Hysteria. This condition was fairly common among 19th century middle and upper class women. It was characterized by erratic behavior along and emotional outbursts. Female Hysteria was often caused by the feeling of worthlessness and incapacity due to a power struggle between themselves and their male counterparts ("Restoring Perspective"). Before the narrator was placed in isolation, she lived a typical 19th century woman lifestyle, which included her oppressive husband and the sole responsibility to take care of the house and their child. When it came time to decide a treatment plan for the narrator had very little say when it came to deciding a treatment plan for her condition. Her husband didn't listen to her when she wanted" less opposition and more society and stimulus" as she felt so lonely and week in her isolated room (Gilman 154). He believed that he knew best, despite his wife's apparent deterioration. This power struggle caused the narrator to feel weak and vulnerable, which eventually led to her ultimate downfall. At the end of the story, the narrator explains that "[she] got out at last, in spite of you and Jane. And I've pulled off most of the paper, so you can't put me back" (Gilman 166). The narrator successfully ripping all of the wallpaper is a symbol for finally escaping from her husband's controlling nature and anchoring child; she feels free from the inferiority she suffered from for so long. Her frustration from being constantly undermined by her husband drove her to pure insanity, which made her feel the need to physically break free. 

The cure for Female Hysteria was, at the time, commonly known as the Rest Cure. Created by 19th century physician, S. Weir Mitchell in 1872, this prescribed method was believed to cure those suffering from this condition. The protocol "encouraged complete rest, seclusion, and excessive feeding" which therefore prohibited any type work (Bassuk 247). In The Yellow Wallpaper, the narrator's husband treats her using this method. She remains in her room in solitude, and is "absolutely forbidden to 'work' until [she is] well again" (Gilman 154).  At the time, the Rest Cure was widely acclaimed to cure those suffering from hysteria. However, by looking at the effects the treatment had on the narrator in the story, it becomes apparent that Mitchell's treatment did more damage than good. In the story, the narrator didn't show signs of schizophrenia, paranoia, or emotional outbursts until she began experiencing more and more solitude in her daily life. Her constant crying didn't occur when her husband was present, only when she was alone. She only saw the woman creeping through the wallpaper when she was in her room by herself. The prescribed solitude drove the narrator to insanity. Overall, the narrator became significantly worse as she slowly deteriorated to an insane state of mined. It is ironic that the method that was supposed to cure the narrator's emotional hysterics only heightened the nature of them.   

Female social status, Female Hysteria, and the Rest cure are three historical concepts that can be seen within The Wallpaper. The narrator suffers from Female Hysteria due to her female status. She feels inferior to her husband and is unable to voice her ideas and concerns regarding her treatment plan, knowing they both will not be valued. While the Rest Cure was supposed to cure the narrator, the constant isolation turned her and caused a major mental breakdown. Charlotte Perkins Gilman herself contests that when she underwent the Rest Cure, she felt herself reaching a nervous breakdown from the constant solitude. By looking at The Yellow Wallpaper through a historical lens, the narrator's condition and reaction to the Rest Cure become very understandable.
