The typical ghost story consists of the same factors.  Well, a ghost, of course, that haunts an innocent civilian.  Then, there is the ghost that only haunts someone in a ghost story because they have unfinished business fixed with the person present and they cannot be satisfied until their "worldly matters" are taken care of.  Most importantly, the main purpose of a ghost story is to scare someone.  20th Century Ghost and The Lawyer and the Ghost exhibit both of these elements very clearly.  However, they have a different way of displaying those elements.  Despite the plot twists in these two different stories, they still share the same themes.  Analyzing these two texts, the reader can detect the similar themes of supernatural interference with the living, normal reactions to ghostlike characters and personal fulfilment of the afterlife in both The Lawyer and the Ghost and 20th Century Ghost. 

 Joe Hill's 20th Century Ghost is a chapter of 20th Century Ghosts, a book of different horror short stories.  20th Century Ghost starts with Alec Sheldon, a theatre owner, describing the legendary spirit, Imogene talking to moviegoers about different films.  Reminiscing, he then explains when he first met the kind spirit and how he began working at the Rosebud Theatre and later became the owner.  Coming back to reality, Sheldon thinks about the theatre in its current condition, as well as his own.  He thinks about the friendly ghost and her occasional drop-ins and what may happen to the theatre, as he gets old with age, until he is interrupted by a young boy.  Sheldon can tell that something was wrong, but does not exactly respond to it the way the boy did.  The child was describing his meeting with the spirit with a flushed look on his face while the theatre owner was listening in a calm state.  

The Lawyer and the Ghost by Charles Dickens is a short story explaining an engagement with a poor man moving into an apartment and a ghostly fellow who was once a beggar.  The ghost's goal is to scare the poor man out of his old apartment.  As a result, however, the man holds a typical conversation with the ghost and convinces him to do something more positive than haunting old miserable places.

These stories share two specific themes, one being the spiritual interferences with the living.  The other motif is something that is not usually seen in a ghost story and that is the common reactions between people and ghosts.  In most ghost stories, it is expected that a spirit do everything in its power to put fear in a living being in the scariest way possible.  Spiritual Science Research Foundation states the ghost usually does not let people enter an area and torments whomever does ("Where Do Ghosts Exist- Haunted Places").  Although, the ghostly characters in these two aforementioned ghost stories do not make much of an effort of scaring anyone when intervening with the real world.  

Imogene in 20th Century Ghost simply sits next to certain people in the movies and talks to them about the films.  In fact, the text mentions that when "she gets excited about a movie, she needs to talk," because she is elated to connect with the living and she is comfortable, regardless of her physical state (Hill).  Unlike most spirits, she was only interested in engaging in conversations with those who attended the movies, instead of terrifying the public and forcing them from visiting the theatre.

Dickens' ghost in The Lawyer and the Ghost on the other hand have other intentions that are not as kind.  His main goal was to haunt the old lawyer out of his apartment out of revenge he wanted for the "harpies that divided his wealth," two people that have no affiliation with the lawyer (Dickens 3).  Yet, the spirit's plan does not go out as he expected.  Instead, the lawyer uses his persuasive talents to convince the apparition to hangout in happier places.

Another thing that these two stories have in common is the reaction that the characters have with the ghosts.  It is almost as if the living characters are comfortable with the ghosts in the stories.  Characters from both stories treat the spirits with respect, even though they are intervening with their worldly lives.  For instance, Harry Parcel, Alec Sheldon, and Stephen Greenburg each have a usual encounter with Imogene's spirit.  Stephen refers to her as a "friend" shared between Alec and himself (Hill).  Alec tends to hold friendly banter with the spirit from time to time.  Not only does Alec have occasional chitchat with Imogene, but he also shows respect towards her and cares for her throughout the story by carefully choosing his words, keeping the theatre in good standing, and finally playing The Wizard of Oz when the building is reopened.  It is clear to see that Sheldon shared a special relationship with the spirit of Imogene.

Of course, the lawyer in Dickens' short story is not astounded by the spirit's presence.  He simply asks the spirit his purpose for haunting his apartment.  After the lawyer shows that the ghost haunting is ineffective, the two have a friendly conversation.  The lawyer even gives the lowly spirit good advice and finds a solution in which the ghost, as well as himself, can live happily.

The third similarity between these texts is the personal fulfilment the ghost longs for.  Most spirits are known to haunt or impede because they seek satisfaction in a specific person, place, or thing.  Furthermore, "the spirit maintains the same characteristics of the person who once lived" ("General Paranormal Questions").  This important point serves as an innuendo for the ghosts' activities.  For example, the mistreated, miserable beggar carries the same deprived personality as his spirit does and consistently haunts the same miserable apartment year after year.  He longs for revenge for the two wrongdoers and will not properly rest until he believes he has it, even when the two are no longer around.

Imogene, however, had a pleasanter personality.  Therefore, she was a kinder spirit.  It is obvious in the story that her spirit wishes not to harm anyone, but simply enjoy the movies and socialize with other moviegoers as she did when she was alive.  Instead of worldly possessions, Imogene sought out satisfaction in medial entertainment and companionship.

Between these two stories, there are some of the same themes present.  Nonetheless, there are special, creative changes relating to the story.  There are some things necessary for a good ghost story, like a ghost in the midst of human life and a longing satisfaction of a spirit, but not all ghost stories have to be the same or put a shiver down your spine.
