Women in today's society have always been looked down upon or treated unequally when it comes to men.  Women have always been taught to accept that they will not be as powerful as men. They are taught to shrink themselves, make themselves smaller so they do not threaten the man.  While looking at the power video, the relation between a man and a woman become more evident.  Women may have power, just not as much as a man, they are still seen as nothing more that just objects or tools.

The layers of women surrounding Kanye show they are nothing but objects that help amplify his power. Each woman is uniquely and carefully dressed. The women are barely dressed and if they are dressed it is in a limited amount of sheer, almost see-through clothing.  The colors they are dressed in make them fade to the background of Kanye's entire black outfit. There are many different types of color schemes, all of which are very plain and non-attention grabbing. All the women are wearing either a light salmon, tan, or skin tone color sheer cloth. They are dressed plain, with no jewelry, so they do not stand out or have any sort of feminine power. They receive some attention, but not enough attention to take away from Kanye. There is one woman, with wings, that looks to be more powerful than the others, but again no matter how much power she has, she is still placed below Kanye. 

The women in the video have been strategically placed below Kanye. All the women below him are thin, with no muscle tone, exaggerating their powerlessness. Kanye's muscles are extremely different. The muscles in his arms are well defined and visible. The muscles in his tightly closed fist are also visible. His muscles and posture give off a tough and hard feel to make him look strong and all-powerful when compared to the women surrounding him. The women are made to look soft and tender, making them look weak and powerless compared to Kanye. There is one woman on the top, left side of Kanye's face who is caring a knife.  The knife in her hand is for apparent malicious use against Kanye and his power. It is almost if she is standing up for the women in video. Of course, she does not succeed in killing Kanye or reducing his power. Yet again showing women may have some sort of power, but it will never equal the amount of a man's. 

The direction of all the women in the video is towards the center of the frame, which features Kanye.  Every woman in some way is pointing towards Kanye.  For example, the women at the bottom left and right corners of the frame, they use their toes to point up to Kanye. Also, the woman reaching up and out with her arms fully extended, are aimed directly towards Kanye. Most of the women in the frame are looking up to Kanye or reaching out to him, and he refuses to look at them. He looks over every female and keeps his eyes locked on the viewer. Even though each woman is practically naked or trying to catch his attention, he still does not break his focus from the viewer. He is flaunting how little these naked women mean to him. They are nothing more than beautiful props. 

The lighting in the piece again shows the unequal amounts of power between men and women. The lighting portrays women as servant like beings to men.  The two women with horns standing on the left and right sides of Kanye appear to be servants that stand around him to guard, protect, and make him look better or more powerful.  The woman below his waist with the wings has the most light drawn to and around her, she appears to be the most powerful of all the women. Her power still does not amount to Kanye's. Therefore, she is placed below him in plain clothing with no jewelry. Finally, the women at the bottom of the frame also appear to be servant like women.  These women in the darker corners of the frame, at the bottom left and right corners, are apparent servants to the man, Kanye.  They both have full chalices of grapes looking up to Kanye, waiting for his approval.

Finally, in this still frame women are again proven to be just object to look at.  Women in this video are sexual beings for men to gaze upon.  For example, the two women at the right of Kanye are dressed in nothing but a sheer salmon colored cloth. The cloth is draped over one of the woman's shoulders.  The women are not looking at the viewer or up towards Kanye.  They appear to be protecting each other from the view of men.  Also, the woman on the far right of the frame, her body is placed in a sexual position for men to look at. She was placed with her curves and body angles at the perfect view for a man to enjoy.  When a man sees this video they want to be Kanye.  They do not see the women as women. Men see women as objects that will make them appear to be more powerful, more Kanye like.

The layers and layers of women in this video maybe seen as beautiful mythical creatures, but nonetheless are still below men in status, worth, and power.  Women are just used to amplify a frame, a video, or a man.  They may have some sort of power, but it is very limited.  Their power has to be contained, so it does not intimidate a man or make a man feel less powerful.
