When you look at art, do you look at the picture it is showing or do you interpret the story or message it is telling.  Scholes, Comley, and Ulmer state that "the technique of art is to make things 'unfamiliar,'" this is a confusing statement, because usually when art is looked upon, the viewer has quite a clear idea of what the object of the piece is (58).  This statement would make one wonder if art is really being viewed the way that it should be or if art is being analyzed and pondered on.  Anyhow, there is a story behind every piece of art and what is thought to be is not what it appears to be.  For example, Artemisia Gentileschi's Judith and Her Maidservant may just seem to be two women who appear to be disoriented, but there is so much to extract from this simple painting.  With the use of symbolism and contrast, the artist grants the viewer a story of a heroine and a powerful, influential message.

With most paintings, the author usually has a connection with their work.  Gentileschi, for instance, is a reflection of her works of art.  At a young age, Gentileschi suffered a horrid molestation, leaving her in a distressing state.  This is very well demonstrated with a look through some of her other work, such as Susanna and the Elders, a painting that illustrates pain and suffering of the female figure from the two male characters.  In addition, Gentileschi is "credited to be one of the greatest female painters in the Baroque period," an artistic period dominated by men ("Artemisia Gentileschi").  With a title such as that, prejudice and discrimination followed; however, Gentileschi overcame that through her art.  When one deeply analyzes Judith and Her Maidservant, it is clear to see that it was fashioned by someone who favors the idea of women.

Judith from the painting is actually a character in a story in the Bible, the Book of Judith to be more specific.  Judith, a rich widow, lived in an Assyrian village named Bethulia besieged by its general, Holofernes.  Later, the inhabitants began to plead for surrender.  Nevertheless, Judith developed a plan to free the people.  One night, she allowed herself to get peculiarly close to the general.  Next, she seduced the general and lured him into intoxication.  Finally, when the general was comfortable, Judith, with the assistance of her maidservant, beheaded the drunken leader.

At first glance, the viewer could possibly be in bewilderment, wondering what Judith and her servant may be looking at.  Alternately, the viewer may be asking what they are looking for or where they may be going.  The viewer could also have little to no understanding of the painting as a whole.  However, the spectator could look more into the painting and see Judith carrying a sword and a lifeless head in the basket that the servant is clutching.  This gives the audience more of a clue of what the artist is trying to display.  This could also help resolve the previous uncertainties.  These simple details could unfold plenty of possible scenarios.  

Surely, there is meaning behind Gentileschi's obscure symbols.  Colors may be used to make the picture look pleasing, but they also serve another purpose and that is symbolism.  See how white the maidservant's headdress is as well as her dress.  The color white can be used to signify purity.  The artist illustrated the servant in white to let the viewer know that what these two women did was for a good purpose; then again, there are bloodstains from the head reminding the audience that for whatever purpose, the act is still a sin.

There are two more symbols in this painting that are used conjointly, one can be spotted without any struggle, and another that may take a little more effort.  Anyone can see that Judith is carrying a sword but it may take a little time to see the human-like figure in Judith's hairpin.  By chance, the viewer could be oblivious to who or what this "figure" could be.  This is where the sword comes in.  Yet, the viewer would have a better understanding of this detail if they were aware of the historical background of the painting.  When you consider the history, you can compare Judith's story to another well-known story.  Reflect on what Judith did for Bethulia.  She risked her own life to save an entire village, similar to what another character did in the Bible.  Doesn't Judith remind you of David?  Is that who may be in her hairpin?  It would only make sense.  Gentileschi's purpose is to heighten the idea of women and bring attention to them, so why not compare Judith to one of the most prominent men in the Bible.  This would surely bring interest to women.  The artist wants her audience to know that women are more powerful than they appear.  She is also portraying that anyone can be a hero, even a woman.  Because she was discriminated and judged, she depicts women in similar positions as her own to prevent the very social stereotypes that were put on her.

Gentileschi puts Judith on a high pedestal, as if the story does not do it enough, and makes her an icon for women in her work and she does it in the simplest ways.  Look at the way she uses contrast, for example.  Judith and her maidservant are illuminated so brightly, making them the subject of the painting.  On the other hand, Holofernes' head is shadowy and placed in the bottom corner.  It is almost hard to notice.  Comparing both the well-lit women and the gloomy head of the general, one can infer that the artist intended to give Judith and her maidservant superiority.

When you see Judith and Her Maidservant, what do you see?  Do you see two women trying to flee from a dirty crime or two heroes saving a village from an over-controlling leader?  Is the artist's goal accomplished; can you see how much she has highlighted and strengthened the impression of women?  Judith and her servant transforms from suspicious and guilty to brave and selfless when the contrast between them and the lifeless head and the various symbols are taken into account.  After witnessing Gentileschi's tactics, the idea of women is stimulated.  When carefully analyzed, the painting is more than what it appears.  However, when a work of art, such as Judith and Her Maidservant, is based on a story, the story needs to be understood to help the viewer comprehend a painting.  Nevertheless, a painting can be much more than what it seems when it is "looked into" rather than just being "looked at." 
