By looking at the visual of Indians huddled around a well we can see how truly desperate for water these people are. Most readers don't see this as important because water is something that we are blessed to have, whereas that is not the case for many other parts of the world. On a deeper level of thought, a common predisposition is frequently formed about Indians in the region of Gujarat. It's easy for us to jump to conclusions of people living in these regions, which may cause people of other ethnic backgrounds not to feel sympathetic about the daily struggles they endure. Seeing images of people with these struggles gives off mixed emotions to those of us who are far more privileged than the people portrayed in the visual. 

This visual depicts the life of those that are not nearly as fortunate as the rest of us are. Within this one photo there are many things that are portrayed and explained without any forms of writing. This image goes out to the population that does not have to worry about something such as "How will I get water to keep from dying of dehydration?" It's questions like these that give people thanks for what they have. However in this image, groups of poverty struck individuals are fighting for a spot in line to get a bucket full of fresh, safe drinking water. Within this image you can see the difference of roles between both men and women. Men in this group of people are the ones that have the priority and authority, which is why they are first in line at the well. The written text above the picture says at one point "1 billion people still lack access to clean drinking water."(Mark Pygas, "These 75 iconic photos will define the 21st century so far, Distractify.com) The picture, along with the text really puts this image into perspective. Without the text this image would give off a point, not nearly as strong as the one it gives off with the text. The design of this paper is to not only show the desperate needs of the people in this society, but also the social classes that are being dealt with. As seen in this image the men are in the front getting water, and the woman are in the back carrying and standing with the jugs. This shows the power and priority that men have over woman in this society. 

This visual text demands you to stop and really understand what is going on in this photo. The location of the well being in the desert puts the image into the viewers head that there is quite a need for water, not only for the people in the image, but for all the humans that live in that area. There is also an obvious rush to get to the water, showing how desperate and depleted of hydration these people are. The gender classes are also very prolific in this picture, the men in front of the line with no shirts or tank tops on, and the woman in the back of the line with head to toe dresses and sometimes even head covers. This is such a complex photo, close evaluation of it brings out not only numerous questions, but also many examples of differences between our middle-class lives in America, and the poverty struck lives of a third world country. Visuals like this give us the opportunity to broaden our minds by seeing the lives and hardships of people that are far less fortunate then we are. Seeing an image and gives us better ideas and understanding of what goes on overseas for societies of people that do not have the necessities we do to survive. 

There are many things that are unstated and require close analysis in this picture. For instance, why are the women in vibrant clothing? Why are most of the men not wearing shirts, or if they are, why tank tops? Why is it only men at the front of the well? These are all questions that arise while closely examining the visual. Maybe all of these questions brought on is exactly what the photographer intended. Asking all of these questions while reading not only makes the photo more appealing to your eyes, but it also keeps the viewer busy while observing. 

Close reading or observing a photo brings a whole new perspective to not only the photo, but also what that photo stands for. In our example we have a group of foreign people desperately in need of water, battling each other to get such a simple necessity to survive. Without images like this, people would be clueless to what goes on all around the world. Seeing people not being able to get something as simple as water may not only make people feel for these areas of the world, but may also bring donations and support to these third world countries. In this visual the well is located in an extremely desolate, dry area. The ground is covered in cracks, showing that rainfall here is not something that occurs often. Without water, dehydration comes quickly into play, and out in the middle of the desert like this you can guarantee there will be little or none medical assistance. Staying hydrated in a region like this is a job in itself, even if there is a source of running water. However hundreds of people have to rely on this giant well to not only give themselves water, but their families as well.

From closely observing this photo I not only put a grasp on every detail in the actual photo itself, but the photo helps me understand the lives of these people through their actions in the photo. Close visualizing not only gives you the ability to look in depth at the actual figures in the photo, but it also makes you stop and think about how brutal the lives of these people are. This is something that people throughout the world are blind too, which is the conditions of those who are far less fortunate then we are. Close observing of a photograph not only gives you a better understanding of the details that are in it, but a connection and understanding to the people photographed.
