Throughout history, women have been expected to look a certain way, to do certain activities, and to have certain opinions. If a woman dares to go against those demands, then she risks being scrutinized or looked down on by society. The short story "Girl" by Jamaica Kincaid is a perfect example of how historically, women have little to no say in what they do and how they feel about basically all of the essential components of their life. "Girl" is based on a mixture between the historical significance of Antiguan culture and the roles of women in multiple societies. In the past, African families in Antigua have been matrifocal, which relies heavily on the mother's lineage, leaving the women responsible for the majority of the family (Gaunch). Throughout the passage, Kincaid emphasizes her message of the insufficient acknowledgement of women's opinions by including several literal components that play with the reader's emotions and perspective on women's roles. "Girl" creates a message of inequality and oppression of women's opinions in both Antiguan culture and poorer societies.

The title alone sets the tone for the entire piece. The word "Girl" implies that the character is very young and does not have any real life experience; therefore she cannot make decisions for herself and does not know what is best for her.  This parallels with a historical perspective of women's roles in society, not only in Antigua, but all around the world. For years upon years, women have struggled to obtain equal treatment; women have always been looked at as being inferior for their lack of physical strength and lack of historical accomplishments. For instance, there has never been a female president so in the mental perspective of men in the past women are obviously secondary to men. The word "girl" has a immature and naive connotation, pushing readers to conclude that women cannot take care of themselves or voice their own opinions. Throughout the entire piece, the mother keeps telling her daughter simple demands like, "this is how you sweep a corner; this is how you sweep a whole house' this is how you sweep a yard" (Kincaid 197) as if the daughter could not figure out how to do anything on her own. This compares to women's roles in society because in the nineteenth century women had very limited rights such as not having the right to vote, testify in court, and having to remain subservient to their fathers and husbands (Mutume). The title "Girl" makes the reader imply that women cannot do anything for themselves and is inferior to men.

The fact that this short story is only told from the perspective of the mother is a very essential component to this piece. It highlights the fact that women in society do not have any other options for another lifestyle or opinions. When the girl tries to speak up for herself, she is automatically shut down and if she goes against what her mother is saying or has another opinion, then her mother undoubtedly assumes that she will become "the slut I know you are so bent on becoming" (Kincaid 197). Even when the daughter tries to tell her mom that she does not "sing benna on Sundays" which is following the rules, she automatically is cut off and scrutinized for speaking. This shows how in history even if women were doing what they were suppose to, but had something to say, they were instantly shut down and were not expected to have any opinion. In the past women have had no other options for opinions, just how like the daughter does not have any room or options for any type of opinion without being perused for her actions. For instance, "Women's lives are marketed by neither privacy nor distance... Women, more than men, must respond to the personal need of those around them" (Rosaldo 28). This shows that even though society may make it seem as if women have a choice of what they wish to do with there lives, if they do no subside by the expectations of society, then they will be made out to be lesser than others and a failure as a woman. 

Examples of kind and caring words include: please, thank you, it would be nice of you, and you didn't have to; whereas words used in "Girl" are demanding such as: "wash", "you mustn't", "this is how you", and "don't"(Kincaid 197). The mother only speaks to her daughter in a demanding tone throughout the entire text, portraying to the reader that the way that her mother does things is the only right way and any opinion or thought that differentiates from her mothers' is imposturous. Kincaid chose to only depict a demanding tone throughout the entire passage so the reader could see that the girls' life is just a bunch of demands. All of the demands revolve around the home and domestic work, which parallels with the fact that women's lives are home based. When a woman does deviate from the home, they should not have any flaws and if they do, those flaws will be exaggerated to their extent. The attention to detail in the constant demands of the mother show the narrow mindedness of society and how only questioning the "norms" can get blown out of proportion. For example, near the end of the passage when the girl says, "but what is the baker won't let me feel the bread" (Kincaid 197) her mother automatically infers that her daughter will become a "slut" and barks at her, "you mean to say that after all you are really going to be the kind of woman who the baker won't let near the bread?" (Kincaid 197). This one simple question is a situation where questioning the "norms" will automatically cause others to draw conclusions about ones' life. 

The syntax of this piece is a very essential characteristic that exposes the underlying message of "Girl". The entire text is composed of only one sentence joined with multiple semi-colons to separate the different statements. This implies that women's lives never have a break and even if it may seem as if everything is finished, there is always something more to be done. "Women's early experience in growing up has continuity" (Rosaldo 28) both physically and mentally. Physically, there is a never-ending list of chores to do or errands to run like, "this is how to make bread pudding; this is how to make doukona; this is how to make pepper pot; this is how to make a good medicine for a cold..." (Kincaid 197). These chores stated in the passage are back to back with very specific directions for what the girl must do for every task. Mentally, there is a never-ending stream of thoughts running through the minds of both women and girls. The girl must think about what her mother and family are expecting her to do and if she does not do as expected what will the consequences be. On the other hand, the mother has the duty of the daughter and family; she must raise her daughter in a way that she can efficiently take care of the home, while at the same time taking care of her own home and family. This continual current of thoughts and actions does not leave any room for any opinions or thoughts that would depart from the expectations of women in society. Therefore, supporting how women's opinions are being oppressed by society.

The context of girl is a perfect example of the historical oppression of women's opinions, not only in Antiguan culture, but also in all societies. Through several components of the passage, Kincaid makes her message clear to the reader and changes the readers' perspective of women's roles and how their voices are heard. The title, "Girl" implies that all women are immature and cannot make choices for themselves. Because the passage is only told from the mother's perspective, shows how women do not have another option to have a different opinion. The demanding tone of the mother implies that all opinions that question or go against societies opinion of women will be criticized. Finally, the constant syntax of the piece emphasizes that women do not have time to think about possibilities because they are too busy fulfilling their role as a proper woman in society. Kincaid's take on women's roles in society throughout history forces the reader to step back and question how we are still treating women today.
