Historical context has played an essential role in explaining human behavior for centuries. From analyzing ancient Egyptian rituals to studying WWI tactics, understanding the history behind it brings clarity to it all. Historical context, in particular, plays a critical role while analyzing literature. The Yellow Wallpaper by Charlotte Perkins Gilman is a short story heavily influenced by the science and attitudes of the time. The text is set in 19th century America. Although a time praised for its inventions and discoveries of the Industrial Revolution, this time period was primarily male dominant, which left little room for women to excel outside of the household. This status caused many women to feel weak and worthless and often led to breakdowns from the power struggle they experienced.This historical context is seen throughout The Yellow Wallpaper.  The context suggests that 19th century female social status, Female Hysteria, and its treatment emphasize the theme of female inferiority within the text. 

Gender in the 19th century was considered to be a very separate matter. Men and women had distinct roles that didn't cross paths. Men were taught to be strong and hardworking while women were to be domestic and uphold the household.  In addition, women were taught to be inferior to men and not to develop mail traits such as "aggression, independence, self assertion, and curiosity" (Rosenberg, 656). These distinct differences among 19th century gender roles are apparent within In The Yellow Wallpaper. The main character is sure that she is ailing from some sort of disease. Yet her husband, a physician, insists on following his prescribed protocol and ensures her that nothing is wrong. The narrator also explains that her brother, also a physician, agrees with her husband and believes nothing is wrong too. Both male figures in the narrator's life have determined her life's course, ignoring her concerns and possible solutions. She disagrees with their prescribed treatment, but finds herself unable to voice her opinion. As the short story progresses, the narrator attempts to talk to her husband in order to express her concern about her condition. While trying to talk to her husband, he, yet again, ignores her wish to treatment and search for other options. She " remain[s] a child-woman, never developing the strengths and skills of adult autonomy" as her husband treats his wife like a child by talking to her in a patronizing tone and urging her to go back to sleep (Rosenberg, 656). The female narrator ceases to be a dependent ward, with no male figure ever acknowledging her. "But what is one to do" as a 19th century woman- unfortunately, nothing less than to remain silent and abide by her male physician's orders (Gilman, 154). 

The narrator of The Yellow Wallpaper suffers from a case of Female Hysteria. This condition was fairly common among 19th century middle and upper class women. It was characterized by erratic behavior along with emotional outbursts. Due to women being very dependent along with their limited power compared to their male counterparts, women often suffered from anxiety and depression, which were commonly linked to female hysteria. Judging by the lack of say the narrator had in her personal life regarding her treatment, it can be assumed that the character felt some sort of weakness compared to her husband. Like a common 19th century woman, this feeling wouldn't just be present when the narrator was dealing with her condition. Her hysteria spawned from her husband's oppressive nature and her sole responsibility to take care of the house and their daughter. The power struggle induced and overwhelmed behavior that began before her husband placed her in isolation. At the end of the story, the narrator explains that "[she] got out at last, in spite of you and Jane. And I've pulled off most of the paper, so you can't put me back" (Gilman, 166). The narrator successfully ripping all of the wallpaper is a symbol for getting out of her husband's controlling nature and anchoring child; she feels free from the inferiority she suffered for so long. Major symptoms of Female Hysteria also included hallucinations and major emotional hysteria. It becomes apparent that the narrator suffers from this disease when she suddenly becomes attached to the wallpaper in her room and is convinced there is a " woman stooping and creeping" behind the paper (Gilman, 159). Eventually her obsession takes over, and she becomes paranoid of the creeping women behind the wallpaper. 

The cure for Female Hysteria was, at the time, commonly known as the Rest Cure. Created by 19th century physician, S. Weir Mitchell in 1872, this prescribed method was believed to cure those suffering from this condition. The protocol prohibited work, encouraged lying down, and rest. In The Yellow Wallpaper, the narrator's husband treats her using this method. She remains in her room in solitude, and is urged to lie down after anything requiring effort, including eating. At the time, the Rest Cure was widely acclaimed to cure those suffering from hysteria. However, by looking at the consequences of this treatment the narrator experienced, it becomes apparent that it did more damage than good. In the story, the narrator didn't show signs of schizophrenia, paranoia, or emotional outbursts until she began experiencing more and more solitude in her daily life. Her constant crying didn't occur when her husband was present, only when she was alone. She only saw the woman creeping through the wallpaper when she was in her room by herself. Dr. Mitchell also "believed that women were fundamentally inferior to men and that their nervous systems were more irritable"(Bassuk, 251). This theory places women lower than men. The narrator's husband ignores every request she has to do something active and productive. He, along with Dr. Mitchell at the time, were both convinced that women should remain doing activities that were solely meant for females, or nothing at all. The treatment was intended to calm the body of any nerves that could have been induced by work or stress. Ironically, the prescribed method that was supposed to rid the narrator's emotional hysterics only made them exponentially worse. 

19th century social status, Female Hysteria, and the Rest Cure were all influenced by female inferiority. Social status was contingent upon women being dependent upon a male dominant society. Female Hysteria was discovered based upon women suffering due to a power struggle. Finally, the Rest Cure was created to ensure women would return to their natural state. All three of these inherently male ideologies are present within The Yellow Wallpaper. The main character suffers from Female Hysteria due to her status as a weak middle class 19th century American woman. Throughout the entire story, the narrator tries to voice her opinion but is constantly shut down by her male counterpart. In the end, the treatment that was supposed to cure the narrator backfired and induced paranoia and insanity. Charlotte Perkins Gilman herself contests that when she underwent the Rest Cure, she felt herself reaching a nervous breakdown from the constant solitude. By looking at The Wallpaper through a historical lens, the reader is able to learn from the history at the time with the hope that unfortunate repercussions will cease to occur. 
