At first glance this picture seems very simple and appears to be a very black and white photo talking about obesity. There are two very different men standing together side by side. The man that is on the left is in very good physical shape and is very tan. There is a hole where his stomach is supposed to be and inside the hole there are two very well dressed workers looking at a paper and behind them there is a large very clean, bright silver machine being worked on by a third man in clean white cloths. In one of his hands he is holding an apple and in the other he has a weight. The man on the right is very over weight, his skin is very pail and pink in places. Like the man on the left, he too has a hole in his stomach but in his hole there is a very different scene. There are four men in dirty uniforms all performing different tasks on a machine the looks the same as the one in the man on the left, but this machine is very worn down and is covered in rust. The obese man is holding a hamburger in his left and in his right hand he is holding a container of French fries.

When most people look at this picture they would fail to observe the deeper message. they would think that the main message of the photograph would be that if you eat well and exercise properly your body will run like a clean well maintained machine, and if you eat poorly and do not exercise enough your body will run like a w=rust worn down machine. Many people would fail to closely analyze this picture and realize that there is a deeper message inside the men's stomachs. The deeper message that is hidden in this picture talks about how health can be affected by your social status. 

The man on the left is portraying someone from the upper class, or the white collar workers. The first clue to this is the workers inside his stomach. Two of the workers are wearing very nice suits and are looking at a paper, showing that they are the higher up workers. The third man is wearing perfectly clean white cloths showing that he doesn't have to do very much demanding or "dirty" work. All of the colors in the man on the left are very pure bright colors. Such as, the machine in his stomach is a pure silver and the clean bright colors of the workers. The weight and apple in the man's hand also show that he has money, because it is very expensive to buy fresh foods and to have a gym membership.

On the other hand, the man on the right is someone from the middle class or a blue collar worker. The workers that are in his stomach are all in dirty worn down cloths and they are doing tasks that look very labor intensive. The machine itself is drawn with duller and rusty colors because they can't afford to have the new pure silver machine, or to maintain their current machine. The fast food that he is holding in his hands is very cheap and can be accessed in a hurry since the middle class usually works more strenuous hours.

There is always more than one message or main point in a picture or advertisement. Many people miss the second or even third messages that are buried in the picture. The artist of this picture was very smart in that if you don't closely analyze the picture you will not realize that there is a deeper message. They used very subtle hints to their second message, such as the foods, the workers in the stomach, and the colors that they used for the machines.
