Within this one photo there are many things that are portrayed and explained without any forms of writing. By looking at the visual of these Indians from the Country of Gujarat, they are seen huddled around a well. In this we see their true desperation for water. Most readers don't see this as important because water is something that we are blessed to have, whereas that is not the case for many other parts of the world.  The design of this picture is to not only show the desperate needs of the people in this society but also the gender classes that are being dealt with. A common predisposition is frequently formed about Indians in the region of Gujarat. It's easy for Americans to jump to conclusions of people living in this region. This photo may cause those of other ethnic backgrounds to feel sympathetic towards this group of people. Seeing images of people with these struggles gives off mixed emotions to those of us who are far more privileged than the people portrayed in the visual.

The photo also has the quote "1 billion people still lack access to clean drinking water."(Mark Pygas, These 75 iconic photos will define the 21st century so far)

 This visual text demands you to stop and really understand what is going on in this photo. Without the text this image would give off a point, which would not be nearly as strong without the text. The location of the well being in the desert puts the image into the viewers head that there is quite a need for water, not only for the people in the image but the entire region. The photographer of this image used the placement of this photo to his advantage. When you think of a desert you think hot, in this photo there is a large group of people battling for a spot to get water. Without knowing anything about this photo you can already assume that these people are in need of water judging by their actions and what they are given with the surrounding climate. There is also an obvious rush to get to the water, showing how desperate and depleted of hydration these people are. These two things together go to show how less fortunate the people of this region are compared to a place like the United States.

 This is such a complex photo, close evaluation of it brings out not only numerous questions but also many examples of differences between our middle-class lives in America, and the poverty struck lives of a third world country. Visuals like this give us the opportunity to broaden our minds by seeing the lives and hardships of people that are far less fortunate then we are. Many comparisons between the two can instantly be brought up when first viewing the image. The most obvious is the labor that is being put forth to get something as simple as water. This is something that we have the pleasure of being able to go to the sink and get it from a giant facilitator. Another difference is the shown power that men have over woman. Men in this society have priority over woman, this is displayed perfectly when seeing all of the men in the front of the line, and all the woman in the back. Seeing an image that gives us a better idea and understanding of what goes on overseas in societies that are not as fortunate as us gives us a reason to be thankful.

This visual also depicts the lives of those that are not nearly as fortunate as the rest of us are. Within this image you can see the difference of roles between both men and women. Men in this society are the ones that have the priority and authority, which is why they are first in line at the well. Also in this image the men are in the front getting water, and the woman are in the back carrying and standing with the jugs. This shows the power and priority that men have over woman in this society. There are many things that are unstated and require close analysis in this picture. All of these questions may have been intended to target the reader, but either way closely analyzing is the only way to be fully capable of comprehending every aspect of the photo. Asking all of these questions while reading not only makes the photo more appealing to your eyes, but it also keeps the viewer busy while observing. 

Close reading or observing a photo brings a whole new perspective to not only the photo, but also what that photo stands for. In our example we have a group of foreign people desperately in need of water, battling each other to get such a simple necessity to survive. Without images like this, people would be clueless to what goes on all around the world. Seeing people not being able to get something as simple as water may not only make people feel for these areas of the world, but may also bring donations and support to these third world countries. In this visual the well is located in an extremely desolate, dry area. The ground is covered in cracks, showing that rainfall here is not something that occurs often. Without water, dehydration comes quickly into play, and out in the middle of the desert like this you can guarantee there will be little or none medical assistance. Staying hydrated in a region like this is a job in itself, even if there is a source of running water. However hundreds of people have to rely on this giant well to not only give themselves water, but their families as well.

From closely observing this photo it is easy to put a grasp on every detail in the photo itself, however the photo helps me understand the lives of these people through their actions being portrayed. Close visualizing not only gives you the ability to look in depth at the actual figures in the photo, but it also makes you stop and think about how brutal the lives of these people are. This is something that people throughout the world are blind too, which is the conditions of those who are far less fortunate then we are. Close observing of a photograph not only gives you a better understanding of the details that are in it, but a connection and understanding to the people photographed.
