Discipline is familiar to everybody because one is disciplined when he or she is young. The first disciplinary institution one will have is his or her family. Family serves as the fundamental educational sources to the child. And then school, which counts as equally significant as families, also serves the intermediaries of behavior and success. Discipline is also used to unionize people, organizing people in different groups and having proper punishment. Foucault talks about discipline in his essay, "Panopticism," that certain rules will have power over people or groups and their effects to later life. What discipline does to one person is not just temporarily, but the big panoptic view of one person's life. The existence of discipline makes the world well ruled without much chaos. 

The concept of panopticism includes many theories. The difference of watching and being watched is formulated by panopticon. The theory tests that the difference of one's behavior with or without being watched. The focus of Foucault's panopticism is the observer of human behavior and the discipline of a certain group. Discipline is significant in his theory. Foucault talks about the discipline and how it extends to infinity area, "a sort of social 'quarantine' to an indefinitely generalizable mechanism of 'panopticism'" (256). Foucault points out that "the disciplinary institutions was no doubt only the most visible aspect of various, more profound processes" (251). The institutions organize people's behavior and punish people who violate the rules. The purpose of punishment is to avoid the future repeat of violation and its harm to the society, so discipline has an active effect on people, especially in the young age, discipline has a strong impact to the future development and behavior.

While prison does not apply to me, Foucault's institutions, such as family and school, have strong impact on my life. The first discipline I have is in the  Lower school, where I was punished by talking in class. In the Lower School, students are not supposed to be talking in classes unless the teacher wants them to do so. This rule is partially successful because if everyone is talking at the same time, the teacher will not be able to teach anything in class; however, some punishment to little kids has certain bad influences over their fear to speak in public. Luckily, the fear to speak up does not apply to me. The further discipline I have in school is through the Middle school, which is a boarding school. The school is one of the most strictest schools in my neighborhood area. One example will be not talking at all after bedtime and cleaning the dorm room spotless everyday. Those disciplines are very beneficial to the success of classes and outside of school. Talking after bedtime distracts students from focusing school and from sleeping. There are a few times that we were caught talking after bedtime so the teacher punished us by letting us cleaning the classroom for a week. Although we did not learn from the first time, we later understood the importance of not talking after bedtime. In high school, the rules are not as strict but once someone violates them, the consequences are much more severe. One of the most common violations in the school is plagiarism because people want to take advantage of others in order to get a better grade. There is one time I came very close to plagiarism because I forgot to cite the sources, but luckily, it was just a draft, and my teacher saved me from going before the Honor Board. Later, I was more careful with the citation. High school did prepare me well for college, not just the knowledge, but all the rules we have to follow. As simple as talking in classes or after bedtime, to more severe one like plagiarism. School, as a disciplinary institution, influences me so much for my college life. As the better the habits are rooted in my behavior, I feel grateful that my schools have shaped me to a disciplined person. Discipline has a big impact on my life and I am sure to everyone else as well. 
