Discipline serves the integral part of one's life because without discipline, the world will not be ruled properly. For most people, the first disciplinary institution they will have is their family. Family serves as the fundamental educational sources to the children. Then school, which counts as equally significant as families, also serves the intermediaries of behavior and success. Discipline is also used to unionize people, organizing people in different groups and having proper punishment. Foucault talks about discipline in his essay, "Panopticism," that certain rules will have power over people or groups; schools are well qualified for the discipline because they have certain rules that will impact students for their later life. Everybody thinks that school only provides knowledge that children need for their career, but what more influential to people's future performance are the regulations that have power over the entire school system. With the existence of discipline, the benefits apply not only personally but also a society as a whole. 

The whole concept about Panopticon is to express the difference of watching and being watched. The theory tests that the difference of one's behavior with or without being watched. The regulations that the school has can only be effective when the teachers are around most of the time, and when there is no one watching people who violate the rule, they will be free from the rules. The focus of Foucault's Panopticism is the observer of human behavior and the discipline of a certain group. Foucault talks about the discipline and how it extends to infinity area, "a sort of social 'quarantine' to an indefinitely generalizable mechanism of 'Panopticism'" (256). The Panopticon serves as the supervision of the rules to watch people and most of the time people are unconscious of being watched. 

Institutions organize people's behavior and punish people who violate the rules. The purpose of punishment is to avoid the future repeat of violation and its harm to the society, so discipline has an active effect on people, especially in their young age, it has a strong impact to the future development and behavior. Foucault points out that "the disciplinary institutions was no doubt only the most visible aspect of various, more profound processes" (251). The primary institution that practice discipline is school because school is the first public institution that anyone will encounter. Some school rules, for example, the teachers do not let students chat during classes unless they are in a group discussion. The students who violate the rule will require a cleaning duty after school. This rule has two effects: one is that the quiet class environment makes the teacher more engaged in teaching more materials to the students without interruptions, but the other effect is the lack of classroom activities that students can learn from each other. The influence to the students will be contradictory and can be develop into two ways.

One discipline can be applied to different location and different time. Foucault talks about the functional inversion of the disciplines as the inconveniences to a large population. For boarding schools, one rule that they do not allow students to chat after bedtime because it distracts other people from focusing school and from sleeping. This rule is very beneficial to the success of classes and outside of school. People spend less time talking instead going to have the rest so that they will not sleep in class. It is hard to not violate this rule because people want to share their experiences of the day to each other. But the teacher makes this a strict rule so that people who violates those have to write a essay about self-reflection to avoid the future violation. The consequences of the second time violation are even more severe, such as the teacher will ask you to clean the classroom for a week or buying gifts for other people who behave well. Nevertheless, there are still times that people are not caught by talking when they are lucky enough. One strategy that students use is to let someone be the guard to watch and hear the movement of the teacher. Talking after bedtime has a negative externality. Rules are set to prevent people from distracting others and have the potential to regulate their personal behavior.

Schools present power over students by applying many rules that regulate the students' behaviors, and the students have to follow those rules or they will face consequences. School, as a disciplinary institution, is most influential to one person's life and prevents people going into other institutions such as prison. However, the existence of "Panopticon" cannot be negligible because people might behave differently when they are being monitored. People still follow the rules unconsciously. The future impact is immeasurable when people come out of school to another institution such as a company, and to an individual's development. 
