Imagine walking down Rainbow Row in Charleston, South Carolina; with its magnificent colors, historic scenery, carriage tours riding by, and smelling the salt water breeze coming from the ocean. It's as if you are right back in the 18th century experiencing the culture as if it had never changed. The restoration of old landmarks has made it possible to travel back and time and explore history in a whole new way. There is no need to read old history books about the events that have occurred, when you can just visit the sites for yourself and learn firsthand. Although not all stories of the past should be boasted about, the fact is, history is history whether its good or bad. What an individual's decides to do in for their future solely depends on them.  In H.P. Lovecraft's "The Rats in the Walls" uses architecture, family history, and self demise as historical and cultural references to help shape the context of the story. 

The architecture of the de la Poer house plays a significant role in distinguishing the tone of the story and historically shaping the text. At first the Delapoer, the narrator gives the illusion as there is nothing to be frightened of, "the deserted pile but a shell-like ruin"(Lovecraft, 30).  Although, after searching for the plans to restore the deserted home to its former glory the designed claimed something else. The home is described as, "This foundation was a very singular thing, being merged on one side with the solid limestone of the precipice from whose brink the priory overlooked the desolate valley..." (Lovecraft) This statement foreshadows what is soon to be revealed, these walls are dangerous. As Delapoer continues with his restoration he begins to expose its secrets. The villagers did not want to see the house restored they believed it be a "relic of forgotten centuries"(Lovecraft). The house was considered "accursed house," full of evil and guilt. It is not until the house is finally restored does the reader understand the true evil that lies within the house. Delapoer describes the home, "I viewed the great rooms, wainscoted walls, vaulted ceilings, mullioned windows, and broad staircase" (Lovecraft, 34). Delapoer description of the house is as if he is describing a prison. Vaulted ceilings and mullioned windows (which look like bars), it is as if he is trapped inside the house, much like that rats that are trying to escape. The progression of the Gothic architecture and darkness of the house combine to add to the horror and evil that is soaked into this ancient and sinful place. The intricate details of the architecture help shape this historical feature of what historical medieval architecture was like. It was considered to be strong and bold, with a tall solid structure that was considered to be indestructible. This type of architecture was great for keeping unwanted things out as well as things in. 

As the narrator explores his family history he describes the de la Poers as "colorful and perhaps sinister" (Lovecraft,32). This description automatically allows the reader to infer that there is something weary about the past of de la Poers. Mean while the narrator is trying to restore his family's home in Exham Priory.  Unfortunately villagers refused to help with the restoration of the property as they have a "unbelievable fear and hatred of this place" (Lovecraft, 32). Not being able to fully understand the villager's point of view, the narrator continues to dig further into his past.  He discovers references describing the family as Cybele worshipers, "cursed of God", voodoo priest, and having an inner family cult. Each of these references to the de la Poer family helps shape the history of the family. It reminds the reader that there was more than one occurrence of repulsive behavior that lead to their declining relationship with other citizens in which they resided around. It was not until he discovered the tale of Walter de la Poer, did the narrator understand the true dismay of his families' heritage. Walter de la Poer was accused of killing all the members of his household, in their sleep, with the exception of four servants. The reasoning behind Walter's gruesome act was justified because he had claimed to unveil shocking discoveries that lead him to become crazy. The murders were not taken seriously by law enforcement, undistinguished, and condoned by the villagers. These details are critical when shaping the historical and cultural contexts of this story. The fact that the murder was accepted by law enforcement and citizens was due to the fact that the de la Poer family contained wealth and instilled fear within the community. Fear and wealth together are considered elements of great power. By obtaining both no one would consider crossing that particular individual for the uncertainty of what might occur to them if they did. 

Lastly the decline in Delapore mental state is vital when it comes to shaping the text. Lovecraft reflects on how the psyche can have a tremendous effect when in comes to terrifying evils lie dormant in the shadows of human consciousness. He expresses on the primal human urge to consume, destroy, and wreak chaos on the self and on the external world. Lovecraft believes that you cannot escape your subconscious natural urges no matter how hard you might try. Delapores mental state is first revealed as he states, "My father dies in 1904, but without any message to leave me, or to my only child, Alfred, a motherless boy of ten" (Lovecraft, 31). This statement portrays the loneliness and abandonment Delapore feels. He had no parents and his son's mother had left him.  Delapores thoughts begin to consume his mind when he has to convinced himself that the horrific tales of his families past were not the ones that formed his moral being. Night after night with only the company of his cat Nigger-Man, Delapore began to hear to scratching of rats in his newly restored home. Where these really rats scratching at the wall or his subconscious trying to escape.  By the end of the story, Delapore contemplates his own saneness; "When I speak of poor Norrys they accuse me of a hideous thing, but they must that I did not do it. They must know it was the rats; the slithering, scurrying rats whose scampering will never let me sleep..." (Lovecraft, 44).  The question remains whether Delapore has truly lost his mind, or was it due to the traumatic events that occurred during his life time. Losing a child, learning of past family tragedies, and then being locked away consumed with only your own thoughts, how could one not go a little insane? Delapores slip into madness is a significant when it comes to evaluating the historical context because his past has a tremendous effect on his future. He let his history shape him into a different man than he once was. 

Architecture, family history, and self destruction are all elements that help shape the context of this story. The type of medieval architecture sets the mood of the story. The house stands tall with its solid limestone walls, and on the inside it looks like as if you are inside a prison. As for the family history, the reader gets to dig into Delapores past trying to understand what kind of evil lived before him in that prison called a home. The more Delapore learns about his families past the more visible Delapore self destruction becomes. He begins to hear the rats in the walls and becomes obsessed with finding the source in which they are coming from. In the end Delapore is locked up in a actual prison consumed with only his thoughts. It seems as if the more Delapore learned about his past the more he could relate to the solitude they felt. He became the very definition that he claimed he never would. 
