     Prisons are made to obtain guilty people and make them better. They simply give them another chance to improve their selves throughout the years they are determined to spend in there. The image is a photo taken in 1905 in New York City. It is a pretty much broad picture, but its main focus is on The Tombs Prison. But it also involves the street in front of it, including the citizens and some other buildings.

     For so many decades, New York City has been known as one of the most significant architectural cities the world has ever seen. Everybody has seen the skyscrapers in television at least once in their life. Even a hundred years back its buildings impress our minds. The Tombs prison is a great example of the early stages of architecture in New York. The way its north and south side are built to form the shapes of half circles. The idea of the dome is somewhat taken from the shape of domes in churches. It is the only building in the picture that doesn't look a hundred years old. Still it is different from the buildings that are being built nowadays, for example, the decorations of the edges on top of the buildings are no more used in modern buildings. Similar to any other prison the Tombs has a yard, which is surrounded by a two floor tall wall, which is bordered by an unknown depth low ground. There is no sign of an entrance, but there is a sort of a gate, that looks similar to the gates used to enter a huge castle in fiction stories, the ones that roll down a wooden bridge to get across either side. Otherwise there is an entrance on the other side of the building. The picture gives you an idea about that the Tombs prison is one of the most secure prisons in the US, that assumption is supported by two facts. The first one is that the prison is inside a populated area, unlike normal prisons, where these would be isolated from any village, town or city. The second fact is that the people in the picture walk beside or stand before it as they want, without any rules preventing them from doing that.

     The second most thing New York City is known as is the traffic. This picture was taken during the day; because there was no indication that any lights were turned on. In addition, the street is filled with people, must have been a busy day. The common transportation method before the invention of cars was horses, or horse wagons. There are different shapes of wagons or as some call carts, half of them are roofless while the other half had a roof, which probably were more expensive. Horse wagons are also used for purposes other than transportation, such as, carrying goods, agriculture or war vehicles. There are at least six horse wagons in the picture, and nearly all of them are the carrying goods kind. However, that wasn't the only method of transportation that is shown in the picture. They also operated trolleys at that time. They are a somewhat mixture of busses and trains. But they were used before the invention of automobiles, so that may was the inspiration of inventing automobiles. And they carry huge amounts of people, comparing to horse wagons. Nevertheless, trolleys could only be used inside the city; since they had a track on the street that determines its directions. 

     Snow is a very beautiful phenomenon that happens in a really cold weather. The picture indicates that it was a snowy day, the picture is black and white, but the viewer can see that both the street and the walkway were pure white. So they must be covered in snow. Due to cold everybody is wearing jackets and suits, but everyone seems to be wearing identical clothes. Also each person in the picture was wearing a hat. There used to be a hypothesis that respectful gentlemen should wear hats. In addition, the roads were not paved. They were made of bricks. The picture demonstrates large words written vertically on a side of a building across the street from the Tombs prison. Written word on the side of a building is a technique used to sign out the name of the building, or sometimes for advertising. Who would've imagined that it was used since a century ago? Furthermore there is a sign that says "offices to rent." That points out that back then they also used offices to provide to citizens or visitors an easy way to rent apartments or workplaces.
