The image of "The Real Widow Brown" was created in 1899, this photograph was taken during the 1800s when the rich were extremely rich, and the poor could almost not survive. The title of this image states that, the lady in the photo is the woman who has just lost her spouse by death. This image is a photograph of right after her husband had died explaining to the public that she is the "real" widow of Brown. The main elements in this photograph that explain this are the facial expression and way she is dressed, the different types of text on the photo, and the image itself, the different colors and shades of colors and how they represent her being "The Real Widow Brown"

First viewing this photo it is hard to distinguish what type it is, a drawing, photograph, or painting. Although when looking at the image the viewed can see an older theme, this shows with the colors used. They use a sepia color, which expresses a time period from long ago. On the photo it shows the time it was created which is 1899. The first photograph was in 1826 so it makes sense that this picture was photograph and not a type of painting. The different color tones help to make the woman the center of attention. There is a dark solid boarder around her which points the viewer directly to the woman. Although she is the only person in the photo it is more obvious that this image is about her and she is not just a prop. If the boarder was in a different location such as surrounding text, then the viewer would know that it is more about the text than the person presented in the photo.

The dark colors that she is wearing with the lighter background really make her pop. It is very obvious that she is a white woman and by the way she is positioned she is proud of that. Not only is she proud to be a white woman, but also she is proud to be "The Real Widow Brown." The outfit she is wearing shows that she was very wealthy and also a lot about the time period. The turtle neck-ruffled shirt or it may be a dress, was a lot more popular in the 1800s then it is today in 2014. Many people today are not seen in turtlenecks and ruffled shirts. The top of her shirt also has extreme detail. In today's society clothing is not made as detailed as it was back in the 1800s, this also helps explain the time period of the photo. In the 1800s the wealthy people had all the latest fashion and the poor had almost nothing to survive and it shows in this photo, from what she is wearing, that she was a wealthy young women. 

The focus is on the facial expressions of the woman in the photo and not just the outfit she is wearing that presents a confident young woman. There are many different aspects of her facial expressions that express she is very confidant in who she is. First is her smile, the photo shows she has a half smile with only a few teeth showing. Another way to tell is that her head is slightly tilted up to show she carries herself well. She is very proud of who she is and that is the real widow brown. Her hair is pulled back away from her face to show what she really looks like. Her hair is covered by a large hat, which also shows the time period because not many people still wear large hats as an accessory. With the hat being so big, it makes a statement, which the whole photo is essentially trying to do. The large items that she has such as the hat and ruffled top gives the sense to the viewer that she is wealthy and proud of that. The main focus is on the woman in the photo, but the statement "I Am She" plays an important roll.

There are two different font types in this photograph. One is at the top, and the words read "A.Q. Scammon's The Real Widow Brown." The first two words are the name of the printer of the photo and the rest of the words state the title of the photograph. The font used here is medium sized and outlined. Although the title is an important part of the photo it is not the main point, that is why its outlined, so it is still noticeable but does not over take the points the photographer wants to express; this is "I Am She." "I Am She" is bolded and italicized showing this is the most important point the photo is trying to make. Having these words in quotation marks shows that the woman in the photo is saying it. She's saying it for the poster so when people view it they know that it is she. She is saying that she is the widow of Brown and even if people are trying to pretend that they are, she now has proof on this photo that she is the real one.

The text and different elements of this picture ties the whole photograph together. The expression of her face and the words "I Am She" shows that she finds humor that other women think they can fool people are the real widow of Brown when in reality she is the real one. When viewing this picture it is clear that she is a very wealthy women and her husband was too. Many others may fake they are the widow of Brown because in the end they want to receive all the money he once had. This is very possible because a lot of people struggled in the 1800s and there was no middle class, you were either rich or poor.

When looking at an image there are many different parts to analyze. The most important part is to look at what character is shown and what it does for the overall image. Although the character may not be the most important part, figuring out what their roll is in the image helps to figure out what the words are saying and what the purpose is. Comparing the lighting, colors, clothing and people in the image will help the reader understand the key elements of the image and what the meaning behind the face on the picture is. 

