The image of "The Real Widow Brown" was created and copyrighted in 1899. This image looks as though it is a poster for some type of film that was about to come out or it would have been something big had happened in the town back then and this is how they showed there news. A few of the elements in this poster are the phrase "I am she", the facial expression on her face, and the type of clothing she is wearing. The way she is positioned says a lot about how she views herself and the color of the image also lets the viewer know that this is from a while ago and isn't a new photo. These elements can tell a lot about when the photograph was taken and what was happening.

When close reading this image, "The Real Widow Brown," it looks as though it could be a film poster. The title explains that she is married to someone who goes by the name of Brown and she is the "real wife" of him. This may mean that her husband was having an affair and it shows her finding out. The emotion that this image puts off would be an independent women who is trying to have it known that she is the widow of Brown. The words above say "A.Q. Scammon's" which also make it seem to be a type of movie because that could be the director or someone who made the film. Without the title and the persons name above the title, it may be considered a type of painting. Adding the wording and position of the lady in this photo will help you to understand the type of image this is and what it is trying to tell you.  

The facial expression of the lady in the picture shows that she is smiling, but it is a sassy type of smile. The smile does not say, happiness, it more says, "I know something." Her head is slightly tilted which shows she has a lot of confidence. When looking at both of her eyes, there is one that is half closed and one that is completely open. This shows that it is more of a photograph then a painting because when smiling, one eye tends to shut more then the other. The outfit she is wearing also says a lot about the time period. It is a turtleneck-ruffled shirt that looks like it could be a dress. The hairstyle she is wearing looks like it is in a bunch at the top of her head and covered by some sort of material. The way she is positioned and how she is dressed really shows what time she is from, which would be the 1800s. 

The saying at the bottom of the photograph says "I Am She." The saying does not only contrast with the picture of her but the title as well. This saying ties the whole poster together, saying that she, the lady in the photo, is the real widow brown. The font of "I Am She" is italicized so it looks like it is her who is saying it and she is the main focus of the image. Her facial expression matches the saying at the bottom of the photo because she looks very confident in the way she is saying "I Am She." She looks confident by her head being up high and smiling. The way she carries herself is a very confident middle aged lady in the 1800s that wants people to know that she is the widow of Brown, the image does a very good job of showing this by the way she is positioned and the colors that are used along with the type of clothing that she is wearing.

The colors and borders in the image create a box around the women. This shows that she is the center of attention for the image and it is about her. There is a dark thick line around her, which makes it really box her in to show that she is the main part of this image. Although she is the only person in the photo if there was a box around certain words the reader would think that is the most important part. The background is very light tan color that brings out the dark tan colors of her outfit and hair but then her face is a lighter color. There are shadows on her dress to make it seem darker and have more view on her face. The image shows that she is a white woman. The color of the image is sepia, which goes along with the older theme. 

This poster shows that there could be some comedy involved with it because the lady is smiling. It could be about a very serious topic but it shows that there is some humor involved because she has a smile on her face. The way she is smiling is not a full smile but it is a half like smile which shows her saying something like "Yes, I am the real widow Brown." The saying "I Am She" really states who she actually is by saying she is the widow of Brown and she finds humor in the way that people view her and it shows that she is very proud to be the widow of Brown. 

When looking at an image there are many different parts to analyze. One of the most important is the character that is shown, but the character may not be the most important part. Figuring out what the characters roll in the image helps to figure out what the words are saying and what the point of it is. Looking at the lighting and boarders helps to find out what part of the photo the reader should be looking at to get a better understanding. Looking at every part of the image, lighting, colors, and people in it helps the reader understand all the key elements of the image and what it means.

