Its right that there is no perfect writing but good writing always attracts the reader to read more of the text.  The writer has to cautious on choosing the right words and has to know what audience he is talking to make them satisfied by knowing what attracts them and to pull their attention. The writer of the famous short story The Necklace "Guy de Maupassant" started a brief and good introduction, used direct speech to make the story more interesting.

An excellent introduction would attract the reader to read more and also engage him with text. The Necklace has a good introduction, which shows to the reader who the main characters are, and also explain what the main characters current status is. The writer focuses on the woman because she will be the main character; he shows what her routine is, and the things that she is struggling with For example, when the writer says, "She dressed plainly because she could no dress well," The writer wants to introduce the main character "the woman" and also wants to show what the woman situation and how does she suffer in her life.  Moreover, when he says, "She suffered from poverty of her dwelling," he illustrates the point that the woman was struggling in her life. A good beginning is an important thing in every text because it what smooth to the reader the rest of the reading. It must have the main idea, some explanations, and expectations. Thus, Guy de Maupassant provided a good introduction to the story that have the routine of the woman and her status.

Guy de Maupassant also includes direct speech in the story to make it more interesting. He wants the audience to know what the dialogue really was and imagine the moment. Using direct speech engages the reader to the story. For instance, the man's says to his wife, " What's the matter? What's the matter?" when she was crying it shows to the reader that there is something serious going on because he repeated what said twice and also shows that the man cares about his wife. The writer delivered what really happened in the right way, in a way that the audience would imagine and feel the moment while they are reading the text. Furthermore, he uses some words to explain the reaction and the emotions while they are having the conversation like "she replied hesitatingly," the writer shows that the woman hesitated when she replied to man's question. Also "She replied with a calm voice, while she wiped her wet cheeks," here the writer Guy de Maupassant wants his audience to imagine the woman's current situation, how her reaction was and the way she is talking. Thus, He wants to make the moment more interesting, he wants the reader to imagine and feel what is really happening and what are the reactions that are taking place in the story and also to engage the reader with the story. Moreover, direct speech is easy to understand because it gives what really happened and the dialogue between the people that are in the story, it does not usually have ambiguous meaning on it. All in all, using direct speech makes the story exciting and engages the reader to the text because it's easy to understand, he includes the how the woman or the man feels while they are talking.

In conclusion, The Necklace is a well-written story, which was written by Guy de Maupassant because he knows his audience very well, he started the story with an excellent introduction, and he also uses quoted in the text to make the story more exciting and interesting. 
