During the civil movement Flannery O'Connor wrote a story which represents the situation in that time because people are segregated in two parts whites and blacks. She shows people's views by using some characters who are predisposed to give a clear image about this issue in that time. The story is replete with much deep ideological perspective such as discrimination and freedom in which way that each idea has a person acts according to it. As long as the author showed the events in the story, she presented each character as an idea by using language deeply and effectively such as the relationship between Julian and his mother. 

The spark of incidents started when Julian's mother got sick, her doctor advised her to go to weight reducing class because she had high blood pressure as well as obesity, in order to save her from negative effects in her body. She asked her son Julian to go with her, and he undoubtedly agreed. First day of the class was really annoying because Julian's mother was not kind with others in bus. While she was wearing her hat, Julian was waiting patiently for her. Then they took the bus to the city heading to their destination. Once Julian's mother sat in her seat, she started talking about her nurse and her father who had too many slaves in his time, and black people should be better as slaves and irritating topics. Suddenly, a black gentle man wearing a nice suit sat nearby Julian's mother; hence, Julian tried to bother his mother by trying to communicate with black man. Then, black women wearing the same hat that Julian's mother wore rode the bus with her little son Carver. Julian's mother tried to play with the boy but his mother refused and took him away to her side. Julian's mother had wrapped ideas and he assumed that she might do some of them there, and she did. She gave the little innocent Carver ankle and got his toy penny, and then she tried to give it to him again. She did a huge mistake by doing that because black women got angry and hit Julian's mother by her massive handbag. Responding to what happened; Julian rushed to help his mother after she got hit.

Though this story seems incredible and predisposes to be unreal, it is describing some people who are divided in two parts in which way they think about discrimination. In fact many people strived bitterly from discrimination, ethnicity and slavery. In addition, some people like Julian's mother have propensity to judge others according to their appearances. When they see a black person, they start looking down at him even if he is better than them. For example, Julian's mother showed she is better than the black man, though he had worn an expensive suit, which is better than what Julian dress (O'Connor 187). Moreover, circumventing to before civil movement time, we can see that people, especially black ones, were devastating because of slavery. They strived to stand in front of those who had prevented them from their freedom. Some black people were tortured when they tried to make revolution or even ask to get some of their rights. But what sounds funny that when those people, like Julian's mother, fail to drag themselves, they start making many excuses. We can notice that when Julian's mother was trying to be ostentatious by introducing her son, but a woman responded loudly "well that is nice selling typewriters is close to writing. He can go right from one to the other" (O'Connor 185).  Another kind of people that the story showing is who are more likely to accept others in spite of differences. For instance, Julian's prospective about others is better than what his mother thinking because he accepts black people while his mother does not (O'Connor 183). He wondered whether he can bring some successful black people to his home for a dinner. It was not mainly about bothering his mother but also to give her a lesson about accepting others despite the differences. So, the story shows a contradictory between two kinds of ideas which are refuse to accept others and accept them smoothly.

Flannery O'Connor has used the language deeply and effectively. She shows her high skills in language by using deep meanings which give her a sanction to describe every incident very well and bring kind of silent message to the audience because it was hard to make the message explicit until the condition got robust. So, that is why the author got herself away from the seen to be just as a watcher to what is happening. The story is filled with emphasizes to make the meaning more clear, and metaphorical meaning as well. When Julian and his mother were going to leave their home "he opened the door himself." Repeating this phrase shows clearly that he opened the door without any help, and it also illustrates his mother's health condition because she was sick. In addition, it may mean that opening the door in that time was not easy because of weather condition. It may also illustrates the relationship between Julian and his mother because have different points of views which sometimes indicates that they don't like each other. Then the author describes the weather metaphorically as there was an enemy which is the sky, and no one try to stand in front of it except houses because it looks ugly. "The sky was a dying violet" is a metaphorical expression about sky's color since it was the end of the day (O'Connor 182). It seems that the sky got that color and being horrible and scary forever, and there were "houses stood out darkly liver-colored monstrosities of a uniform ugliness" (O'Connor 182). This part sounds like horror sight of horror film which can scare watchers before anything else such as killing or gun shooting. It is like preparing the reader or the watcher for the worse for what is going to happen. On the other hand, some people may see sky with that color very beautiful, hence, that indicates the author's feeling hopelessness within civil movement. It seems that she looks at the sky disappointedly, so that dark horror color appears to represent her emotions. In fact Julian's home may not seem ugly but bringing those expressions makes the reading more fantastic to the reader. Moreover, describing those expressions may have different meanings such as being away from people because those houses usually are far away from normal places where people used to live. Additionally, the author describes the neighborhood as "a fashionable neighborhood forty years ago" which indicates that the neighborhood was colorful and pretty before forty years when Julian's grandpa has slaves (O'Connor 182). They were around 200 persons, and who also worked in his land. Fortunately, it was not forever until the civil movement came and freed the people who were devastated.

To sum up, the author has a message to send to audience in a time when people were trying to achieve their goal and find their freedoms. She has describes the sight of different views successfully without being inside the scenes. In addition, She gives indicted picture about two parts of people who agree with Julian's mother and ones who do not. Moreover, the story is replete with many metaphorical pictures which make the context more fantastic to the reader.          
