Should men expect everything perfect from women? When Barbie dolls first appeared, almost every young girl bought it, or eventually heard about it. Everything about the Barbie dolls is perfect her hair, body, appearances and also her life, and freedom. The thing about Barbie dolls that girls could control them, and do anything to them such as: change their cloths, hairstyle, and they also could remove anything from their bodies. Women are feeling the same way; Men are controlling everything about them and could do anything to them. Because all women have rights, they shouldn't be controlled like Barbie dolls, should be included in high rated jobs, and enjoy their lives like men do.

In the late 19th century there were no technology, boys were playing with fake guns, or playing outside, and girls spend most of the time playing with their dolls, so there is a doubt that they want to be like them. Moreover, Barbie dolls take most of the girl's time what make her think to be like her, The question here why does young girls wanted to look like Barbie dolls? Perhaps the answer is because Barbie dolls let them imagine their selves as perfect grown woman, who has freedom, perfect, and enjoyable life and she could do everything by herself without preemption. For example, Barbie dolls wear anything they want and no one tell them what to do. In the article "What Barbie Dolls Have to Say about Postwar American Culture," The author Miriam Forman-Brunell says "Barbie, who had disproportionately long chorus girl legs, would help girls imagine themselves as autonomous adolescents," it looks that it is good thing to be an independent and reliable person; however, it might be a dangerous situation that a young girl acting like a plastic perfect doll, who has a perfect life because in the late 1900s women's freedom was limited, she couldn't do anything without permeation. Women couldn't do whatever they want because they didn't have their full rights like these days. Thus, Barbie dolls are made to be a perfect young adult, who have freedom and rights, which made girls want to be like them, act like them, and have their freedom, and the same life, which slightly impossible in the late 1900s. 

In the 1900s young girls, or women could be controlled like a Barbie doll. As we know, Barbie Dolls can be controlled by young girls, they change their cloths, change their hairstyle. Furthermore, young girls can put them wherever they want, and because Barbie dolls cant stand by their selves, girls can make them sit, or even stand by the wall. In the "Barbie Doll," Marge Piercy says that one of the girl's classmates says to her, " you have a great big nose and fat legs," (Piercy 194).  Moreover, looking closely to her classmate's words " great big nose," and " fat legs", she concluded that her nose and legs look bad; she doesn't look perfect with them and nobody like her with them. That made the girl disappointed because all she wanted is to be acceptable in class and to be respected by everyone. Then, Piercy says, " she cut off her nose and her legs," Perhaps she did that to be acceptable in the class and satisfy her classmate who made fun of her fat legs and big nose (Piercy194). Moreover, the girl's classmate wanted her to look like he wanted, and like he is imagining her. He didn't know that saying these words might change the girl's life. Men were controlling women like Barbie dolls, do whatever they want with them. For example, men were telling women what to wear, were to go cloths, and what to do like girls do with Barbie girls. Thus, that what women were struggling with in the 1900s, men controlled everything. Men and women weren't equal at that time, women didn't have their full rights and women wanted like to live a normal life like men do because after all, they are all human and they all should be treated the same. 

Back to the 1900s women jobs were limited and every woman should expect what she would do in her life. In the article "The 1960s- 70s American Feminist Movement Breaking Down Barriers for Women," the author illustrate that most of the women should get married in their early 20s and start a family as fast as they can. When they start a family, they should spend all of their energies in "homeworking", "housekeeping, and do everything that the home, and the family need. Furthermore, women had limited jobs; most of the women at that time were teachers, nurses, or secretaries, which considered as small jobs. Women were mostly unwelcome to the high rated jobs; for example, engineering had only one percent women at that time. So, there were ninety-nine percent men that were engineers, which considered too many compared to these days. Thus, it was unfair to let women be housekeepers, nurses, and teachers and give the most of high rated jobs to men because women would feel that they are not helping to build the society with these small jobs. In "The Barbie Doll" Percy says, "" She was healthy, tested intelligent," the girl clever and smart, but no one cared about that because these characteristics are not what they need despite the fact that these characteristics could be really helpful for the future (Piercy194). In addition, some women are clever and smart and they could help the society. Because men had the authority at that time, they do what satisfies them, and make them happy.  

At the end of the "Barbie Doll," when they every said " Doesn't she look pretty", she knows that she is not pretty by cutting off her legs and her nose, but she is pretending to do what they say for their interest, despite the fact that cutting her legs, and nose would affect her (Piercy194). The same as when women are assigned to do something that they are unsatisfied with. Some people especially men would say that they there are supposed to be controlled, and don't have their full rights because they meant to be like that, and there are jobs that women can not be in. However, men cannot feel what women are experiencing because they are the one who get everything they want and control women. If men would experience this and forbidden from their rights, they would know how women were struggling and they also would change their minds about this whole idea. All in all, controlling women, and treating them as Barbie Dolls is preventing them from their rights and freedom, they may pretend to like what they are doing from the outside, but they are actually unsatisfied from the inside. They are only doing it to be acceptable in the society, and feel that they are part of it like the girl who cut her legs and nose just to change what her classmates' think about her.    

In conclusion, everyone have to have rights and also respect these rights.  Every Woman has rights to do anything she wants without being controlled, or criticized by anyone. Women are very sensitive, so anything could affect them. Some people say that women's lives in the 1900s was better for them because men were doing the hard jobs, and women are meant to be nurses, secretaries, or housekeepers. Moreover, Men should do the difficult jobs and accomplish the hard things that women cant do it because they have more power than women; however, some women are willing to do this jobs and they want to do this kind of jobs to feel that they are part of the society. All in all, women shouldn't be controlled like Barbie dolls, and should be included in high rated jobs because they are not Barbie dolls. Experiencing this life is hard, but women handle it, which means that they are responsible and could do anything that men could do like the high rated, and the complicated jobs.
