In today's society many individuals believe that violent TV shows, movies, and video games tremendously influence the actions of children. What they fail to recall is the in the 19th century the major form of entertainment consisted of beheadings and the torture of individuals. If killing people on video games has influential power over a child think about actually seeing someone be killed right in front you. The painting, "The Modern Samson" by William Balfour, displays the struggles of a man's resistance, punishment, and judgment.

At first glance, the eyes immediately focus on the man who is strapped to some short of machine, with his hands tied behind his back, and his eyes covered by a blind fold. Questions immediately being to consume the mind, why was the man blindfolded?  Why can they see him but he cant see them? One can only first assume that this man is being punished for some sort of wrongful act he committed. As the eyes begin to analyze this painting further, they look towards the mans face only to recognize that this man does not show emotion of extreme agony nor does he have any marks upon his body. His body language depicts strength and pride as his head is held high and his body is charging forward.  Perhaps this could be the man asking God for forgiveness for the acts he might have committed or maybe he did not do anything wrong and is standing up against a wrongful doing. It could even be said that the man is trying to hold on to whatever self respect he had left, to prove to those around him that he will not go down without a fight. He is turning that machine as he puts one foot in front of the other. The man is well built, showing definition in muscle tone and wearing jeans that do not appear to be torn or dirty, although he was not dressed in clothing like the individuals who surrounded him. So the question remains why is this man hooked to this device? 

As the analysis of the painting is continued the focus is drawn towards the crowd of individuals that surround this man. The individuals closest to him comprise that of four men each wearing suits. Each of them watching this man strapped to this device. The expressions on their faces were seldom, none expressing happiness or relief that this man was strapped to the device. One man was holding a book, maybe a book of prayer or a book to read the man his rights. Whether it was the book of God or Law the man was being judge for the words he had said or the actions he had committed. The women standing towards the back of the room were dressed in beautiful long dresses one with a tiara on her head. The women who stood in front, closest to the man, had her finger placed upon her mouth looking back towards the women standing behind her expressing that she needed to be quite. The action created by this women could entail, that the man holding the book was in fact reading something, something so important that everything must be silent.  By looking at the clothing the individuals surrounding the man were in, they were all dressed up in sophisticated clothing, making the viewer interpret that this was a very serious matter. This was an event that no one wanted to miss seeing or hearing.

After an analysis of the man himself and the individuals that surround him, the scenery in which this took placed is look upon. The room is very small and cramped, considering all the individuals within the room are shoulder to shoulder.  There are three steps separating the man from every other individuals within the room. The only light that is shown I this painting comes from outside the door. With everyone struggling to find space within the room this indicated the seriousness of the matter. The room does not portray a place that is upbeat instead it is filled with darkness and no decoration. The only thing displayed within the room is the machine itself.  This gives off a negative vibe, leaning towards the indication that this man is being punished for something he did. 

All the details the painter portrays in his work are clues to understand the story within the painting. The painter uses the details of the face expression from the people, and the setting of the room to getting us attention to think deeply into the picture. Using this technique allows the viewer to understand the painting through their own analysis. The viewer must first analyze the face of the man strapped to the machine and then look towards the individuals watching this man to interpret what is going on. Many things can be inferred by this painting, the meaning derives from how the painting appeals to the viewer's emotions. Should the viewer fell bad for the man strapped to the machine or happy because he is getting what he ultimately deserved? The message I believe the painter is trying to send is, how any individual could want to watch the pain and suffering of another. Is it not punishment enough that he has to be tortured, let alone have everyone watching his self demise? The painter wants the viewer to make their assumption of the detail he placed within the painting. 

In conclusion these paintings intricate details tell the story of a man's resistance, punishment and judgment.  The painting uses the scenery developed around the man as well as the body language and facial expression of both the man and the individuals that surround him to develop the story within.   
