The Panopticon is a system to analyze and supervise all the people in the community, and in order to rule those people better, there are several rules which people have to follow. The concept they put all people in specific spots and watch them to work should be tested. All the people are put in a specific place that they know nothing about what they have been doing or what they are going to do. It obviously violates the basic rights of human. Those people are living without freedom and privacy, they are exposed to others. People in the Panopticon is more like part of a huge machines, they are not allowed to express their ideas, all they have to do is to work like a machine. Foucault talked about this concept in the article that Panopticon will spread the world eventually, and this system would develop the economy, spread education and improve the public morality. He believes that discipline would be dispersed throughout the entire society, then the power would be more economic and efficient. The Panopticon should be talked about more than others is this system is more like punish than discipline. Others are only working in the emergency situation, and the goals of these system are so different. The Panopticon commands people to do what might not like to do, the Panopticon makes people emotionless and ruthless. 

Then, the system is to make the community runs smoothly and healthy, does it really work? It's uncertain. But the certain thing is that people who live in the system are lacking of creativity, and also always under the certain threatening. These system is more like a communism, the government has huge power that can decide people's life. I think the generation of my grandparents know how that feels, which that people cannot decide their life. They did everything for the community, not for themselves, that's why people wouldn't work so hard, because may be they work so hard for just nothing. There are real example happened before, USSR used to be one of the biggest power in the world, how this big country disintegrated? That's how panopticon ruins a country. In the late USSR, the country was just like panopticon, people were restrict to do what they want to do, and also there always were people watching you. In the end, people in the country suffered from poverty and hunger. This system is separated from the outside world, people in the Panopticon don't know the outside world. The Panopticon is making the world going the opposite way of what people think the world should be. The world should be more democratic and free, but the Panopticon completely drove away from that. The Panopticon would also bring the negative effect to the people who live in there, people would think that is their life and it would never change, then they lose the most important thing in the world, hope. The hope of having better life motivates people to work harder, but once everyone getting the same thing from what they do, they will start to lose the hope.

As the text says: Now, it should be noted that although this police supervision was entirely 'in the hands of the king,' it did not function in a single direction (Text, 255). Even the supervision is almighty, the world wouldn't go to the only way. In prevent of this system taking over our world becomes a ruthless one, we should be always fighting for what we want. We are supposed to take some risks, because that would make the amazing things happen. That's the beauty of creativity and freedom.
