The Yellow Wallpaper by Charlotte Perkins is a very intriguing short story that kept me reading over and over again, it is really hard to understand. Some of the points and ideas I got out of this story will be put into this essay. It may or may not be right but its very sufficient evidence to what the story is about. According to Charlotte Perkins women in the 19th century were consider second class citizens. The narrator is a prime example of this but plot twist her husband is the one making her feel this way. She constantly does not get taken seriously by him who is also her physician. He constantly laughs at her and the narrato states that "he has no patience". John belittles her just like any ther citizen would belittle a women in the 19th century. 

The narrator is a very confusing women she starts off just fine but then insanity takes over her body. She shows greta fear and portrays a sarcastic, angry, and desperate character. Jane may or may not be her name she does not know who she is due to this she loses sight of the world just to be able to see herself in a better manner. 

She comes into connection with the wallpaper in one of the rooms in her mansion. It symbolizes: an undefined text, an undefined person, represents her family and life, it is similar to a puzzle it appears unpleasant at first, "the paint and paper looks as if it was used in a boys school, it is stripped off in great patches all around the head of the bed...worse paper in my life," says the narrator. The wallpaper is a key symbol in the story it resembles the narrator in how she can not find herself. As she tears the wallpaper it reveals a certain piece to the puzzle. The puzze being herself she struggles trying to figure out who she is and it creats tension in her brain. As the paper remains unpleasantly and unclear she to remains unsolbed which forces her to get more and more separated by day from her family and friends. The moral to the story is that she has to lose herself in order to find who she really is, this is why she becomes crazy she gets tired and tired of not knowing who the person in her body is. She begins to see these women just like her creeping up on her later finding out those women were just her missing identities. Frustrated with herself she becomes desperate to do something crazy like jump out of a window like why live if you do not know who you are. 

Not being able to jump out the window she then tears all of the wallpaper off and she finally sees the person she truly is and states, "no one can put me back inside the walls now."
