There comes a time in many people's lives when money happens to become a struggle. For some, that time is during college, while for others, it is an unemployment struggle. These people are often the ones who dream of the so-called "good life," surrounded by luxury and money, living life free of problems and concerns. In The Necklace, author Guy de Maupassant utilizes tone, detail, and diction in order to develop the theme of immediate gratification versus risk.

In The Necklace, much of the story's composure lies within tone. Near the beginning of the story, de Maupassant first utilizes tone in the discussion between M. and Mme. Loisel. While discussing the upcoming event at the palace of the Ministry, Mme. Loisel complains about how she has "no dress" (23), claiming that for this reason, she "can't go to...[the] ball" (23). In this section, Mme. Loisel uses her tone in order to manipulate M. Loisel because she desires immediate gratification. Only a few lines later, the reader can once again observe how tone affects the story. As Mme. Loisel tries on her new dress, she speaks of how it "annoys" (23) her that she has no jewelry, claiming that she "shall look like distress" (23). Mme. Loisel uses her riled tone in order to express her uncontrollable want for jewelry, again pushing for immediate gratification without any mercy. The use of tone to develop the theme of reality versus perception is best illustrated on the next page. When M. Loisel suggests wearing flowers, Mme. Loisel refuses, stating that it is extremely "humiliating" (24) to "look poor among other women" (24) who are wealthy. Mme. Loisel's displeased and bothered tone in this section suggests her frustration with money, and more importantly, her overpowering aspirations to be rich and successful immediately. Overall, Mme. Loisel's tone greatly contributes to the theme of immense immediate gratification versus unconsidered risks in the story.

In the passage, de Maupassant also utilizes a great variety of detail in order to contribute to the theme. The first instance of this can be noted about halfway into the story, when Mme. Loisel first sees the necklace. In this section, de Maupassant writes of Mme. Loisel's "immoderate desire" (24) as she picks up the necklace, including vivid detail of how "her hands trembled as she took it" (24). de Maupassant's inclusion of detail in this manner helps establish Mme. Loisel's impatience to fit in with rich people, or her desire for the very same immediate gratification. Later on in the story, the risks associated with immediate gratification become ever so clear. While waiting for M. Loisel to find the necklace, Mme. Loisel can only wait in a "condition of mad fear before [the] terrible calamity" (26). The detail de Maupassant utilizes to convey Mme. Loisel's fear in this section demonstrates the risk associated with immediate gratification. The most prominent use of detail to establish the theme of immediate gratification versus risk can be noted when M. and Mme Loisel finally manage to repay the loans they took out to replace the necklace. In this section, de Maupassant notes how M. Loisel has become a "woman of impoverished households" (27), with her "frowsy hair" (27) and "red hands" (27). This detail is critical to the theme because it establishes how M. Loisel has inadvertently aged, simply because she did not consider the risk, but instead, wanted to be immediately gratified in the form of the necklace. Overall, de Maupassant effectively utilizes detail to highlight the underlying structure behind the theme: risk versus reward. 

De Maupassant also uses both simple and complex styles of diction in order to contribute to the theme of the story. The first instance of clever diction used in this manner can be found early on in the story. While contemplating the cost of the dress, Mme. Loisel worries about getting an "immediate refusal" (23) and a "frightened exclamation from the economical clerk" (23). In this case, the phrase "frightened exclamation" (23) sticks out because it clarifies how in fact Mme. Loisel did acknowledge the risk of spending so much money, but decided to go with it anyways. Later on, the reader can see more of de Maupassant's use of diction to highlight Mme. Loisel's late realization of risk. The simple sentence in which Mme. Loisel says "I have--I have--I've lost Mme. Forestier's necklace" (25) not only is extremely effective in changing the mood of the short story, but also points out Mme. Loisel's oversight of risk, only recognizing the reward because of her desire for immediate gratification. The last example of diction that leads up to the theme can be found near the end of the story. While discussing the lost necklace, M. Loisel steps up and declares that they have to "consider how to replace that ornament" (26). M. Loisel's statement is a sign of his desire for immediate gratification, for the easy way out. M. Loisel is stating that rather than first approaching Mme. Forestier, they should just buy a new one and give it to her because it would be more convenient. Ironically, they actually end up working so much harder than they would if they simply told the truth. Overall, de Maupassant successfully relies on diction to help convey the theme.

De Maupassant effectively uses tone, detail, and diction in The Necklace to develop the theme of immediate gratification versus risk. As the reader sees, immediate gratification can come back to haunt a person, whether in the form of overwhelming loan payments or just the stress that comes with losing a item of potentially high value. As the very cliche saying goes, do not bite off more than you can chew.
