Society is a very important structure in any country. It determines the efficiency of the work and manipulates people to do what runs best in it. For society to work in an efficient manner, it needs to run a kind of disciplinary code. It needs a concept to make the society work and behave in an acceptable, natural manner. In the text written by Foucault, Panopticism, we see the ideology of this concept, which is called disciplinary society. In this essay, we will be looking for how the concept of disciplinary society has been set up, run in a society, and an application in real life.

The panopticon was designed to spread to society. This is done by Bentham's idea of using disciplinary mechanisms. He formulated it in two images of discipline. The first one is a discipline blockade, which is "the enclosed institution, established on the edges of society". A type of boundary set on each society to keep them away from crossing the line, such as "arresting evil, breaking communications, suspending time". The second image is discipline-mechanism, which is "a functional mechanism that must improve the exercise of power by making it lighter, more rapid, more effective, a design of subtle coercion for a society to come." . It is the same idea that we see when we are asked to accomplish a task. This idea can be seen through instructors. When a specific task with a certain due date is given to a student, he is expected to finish it by that time otherwise, he will be penalized. This example idolizes the discipline-mechanism. The power that lies with the instructor's to deduct points can be seen provide a way to let the student work more efficiently. To operate these two images, the text explains on three ways to a more profound process. These are "The functional inversion of the disciplines", "The swarming of disciplinary mechanisms", and "The state-control of the mechanisms of discipline". Those processes that are led by the two images have increasingly pushed the concept of disciplinary society pushed in society. By the end, the most dependent concept to run a society in a way that is more efficient is by using this concept. 

 The concept of disciplinary society in Panopticism plays a great role in endorsing the penopticon structure. The text expresses it as "a sort of social 'quarantine'". It relies greatly on the idea of plague town. The concept sees individual behavior and defines it as normal. It sets boundaries to what can be defined as normal or abnormal. On those boundaries, it creates the concept of disciplinary society. It is the same concept that we saw in Plague Town. Even though the town was dealing with a disease, the text wants us to take the disease as symbol. The disease represents any idea that is different from what is normal. In Plague Town, any person that carries the disease gets out of the town. The same analogy of a person with different ideologies is thrown of the society by disciplinary society. This concept made people behave in a way to be feared from society before the law. For example, it is illegal to disturb people by putting loud music in your house. Nevertheless, most people will consider of not doing it because people will remember him as the shamed one by his actions. Because this invisible law by society, which we know as disciplinary society, is more powerful and has more effect than the actual laws of the country. In addition, the concept of disciplinary society is more flexible than actual law. It differs from one culture to another and adapts to its environment.

As a student who came from across the sea, I have encountered many actions that were denied socially in the United States. As we have our traditional clothes that are usually our daily costume, wearing it in US seems to have negative impression on society. People think that we are weird or something of that kind. Therefore, I have never wore it outside my country. In this example, the concept of disciplinary society is explicitly shown. Even though there are no real laws broken, the person who wears different clothes than society is marked as a social criminal. The concept of disciplinary society in wearing clothes makes me change the way I think about picking my clothes. It made me think as to what society will feel if I wore different from the rest. This idea has a negative impact, in my opinion, because people are free to wear what they want. The discipline blockade created by this concept freezes the ideology of freedom to a limited space. 

The disciplinary society concept runs in society in everything that is does. We look to what others think of us before we do certain action. This behavior is being controlled by the powerful law society brought, which is a nothing but a concept that is written by Foucault. The concept has its advantages and disadvantages. It can make a society have fewer individual with different ideas that corrupts society. In the same time, it also destroys the creativity that is hidden because of this concept. 
