How could visual texts attract people? Every visual text has a certain meaning, it might means a story that happened in the past, or also the painter wants to express his feeling of problem or an issue in a piece art. If people want to know the fully meaning of the visual, they have to read and concentrate in every detail that visual text has, for instance, the background, the angle, the text that is in the bottom of it if exists and also the audience that the visual text directed to, or how it is affect in people. The visual text that is in the "Carolina Reader" page three hundred and eleven, is eventually about the story "20th century Ghost", so the audience of the this visual text are certainly the people who read the story, the angle of how the visual text is painted has a very important impression, and the painter knew how to deal with the painting's brightness.  

The painting is about a ghost appeared in a room that is full of people. When the ghost appeared, it seemed like people got scared and ran away. Some of them are running to the door and some of perhaps fell down while their running. The Ghost is levitating and holding a candle. The painting is in black and white, but everything is clear and watchable. 

Some people wouldn't like or understand this painting. Perhaps they wouldn't have heard about the story that illustrates the painting, or maybe some people don't like this kind of paintings that shows about ghosts. In the Carolina Reader story "20th Century Ghost," Joe Hill says, "The best time to see her is when the place is full." The writer means that the ghost appears when the place is full of stuff and in the visual text the place is full of people and furniture (Hill, 313). The painting would be directed to the people who read the story ""20th Century Ghost," because in the painting there is plenty of messy stuff and also full of people; moreover, the ghost is involved in the painting. Thus, 

If the angle of any painting changes, it might change the meaning, or the details of the painting, that's why the angle of any visual texts is very important. As it's written in the story that  "The best time to see her is when the place is full," it has been chosen the right angle to show the whole room (Hill, 313). The painting is about a ghost standing in a room that full of people that are running and also full of messy furniture, so the painter might showed the whole room to illustrate that the place full of people and stuff. Furthermore, the angle of this visual text shows how did the ghost affect the stuff in the room and also the people. It also shows that the ghost is apparently standing in one side of the room and the people who are all apparently scared from the ghost, are in the other side of the room, some of the people are on the floor and some of them are running to the door. Also it shows that the furniture that is in the floor looks messy and upside down, it seems like when the ghost appeared people freaked out and ran quickly without thinking what made the place looks messy. All in all, the painter chose the right angle to show every signal detail that is happening by showing the whole room and also the reaction of the people after they saw the ghost. The painter may also want to illustrate how does the ghost affected what is in the room while he appeared.  

Knowing how to deal with the brightness could make the painting more interesting. Black and white colors are only used in this painting, since it's published in the 1800s. Even though the painting is in black and white, the ghost is carrying something looks like a candle is shining. The painter knew how to control the brightness of the painting by making the small part that surrounds candle shines more than the rest of the painting. As it appears in the painting, the candle that the ghost holding is used to spread the light all over the room because the people who are near to the ghost can be distinguished by the color of their cloth; however, it looks darker in the further side of the room. Thus, even though, the painting is in black and white, the painter knew how to deal with brightness.

In conclusion, the angle of the painting shows everything happens in the room, the audience that the painting is directed is people who read, or who will read the story, and the brightness has certain effect to the painting. 
