People always say that pictures are worth a thousand words. This can be proven in numerous works all over the world. Sleeping Beauty, written in 1899, by Henry Meynell Rheam, is just one of those works. Most people have a different perspective or view from one another. Something that someone sees could be a lot or a little different from what someone else is taking in. When walking into an exhibit, something that catches the viewer's eye is the way the painting is lit up and the size. Looking up at a painting, the first thing that the eye catches without analyses is the biggest and brightest thing. Another thing that is noticed in a display is the characters facial expression. The viewer will try to figure out what is shown in the painting by the way the character is looking. When something is stable and the body language is being portrayed, that is something that is always caught by the eye as well. Viewers want to see what catches their eye the most, and how it relates to other things in the same object being viewed. Looking at the composition, the man, and the woman, we can see that the man does not care if the woman is dead or alive; this is important because it shows that the man views the woman as a possession or as if she is on display.

The viewer and the man both have the same focus on Sleeping Beauty, as she is bright and he is obscured. There is in almost any painting that is done, a foreground, and a background. The foreground is where much of the attention from the viewer is looking. When looking at the foreground we notice the women, or as depicted Sleeping Beauty. She is lying on 

what it looks like to be a couch or bed with a big royal blue blanket over her. There are beautiful pink flowers spread around her. That is the image that is given in the foreground, it shows that there is a lot of space. When looking at the image as a whole, the woman is taking up about two thirds of the picture. That lets the viewer to believe that she is the main set of the painting because it derives the focus. Along with the fact that the woman is very spacious, she is very well lit. The viewer is able to see all of the details of the women and the full body shot, even though the blanket is covering her, we get a general idea of what the women looked like. The lighting in the foreground is much more clear and bright so it is drawing the reader's eyes to the woman who is lying down. Unlike the foreground, the background is not so bright and full of space. The man that is in the background is darker, and it is almost as if he is hidden by the dark. Besides the man's upper half, the arms and above, there is not much to see in the man. His face is clear but the rest of his body is dimmed out by the shadows. The man also takes up little space. It is much harder to send focus to the spot that is small compared to the woman. The way the lighting and space is working, is that the better lit, a lot of space something is the more focus and attention the viewer has, and vice versa whereas the darker and less space it is, the less focus the viewer has. In using the technique of composition it allows the viewer to see how the foreground, the Sleeping Beauty, to be lightened up and bright just how a display is lit up at an exhibit. The Sleeping Beauty is being shown as just an object, lighten up, and the man in the background viewing her as this. The man in the background is dark, but luckily enough, it is possible to depict out what the man's facial expression is. 

The way the man is looking at Sleeping Beauty is with a possessive face. He is standing over her, as if he is hovering. When looking at the painting it is shown that the man has a low facial affect. He is blank staring at Sleeping Beauty. Although his face is hard to figure out, it almost seems like he is looking at her with a creepy facial expression. It is not that he is just patiently waiting for her, but he is just watching her and its weird. His arms are over her with no sense of love or awaiting arms, but that he is just there and she does not mean much to him. It is not the way that a lover looks at a lover with excitement and joy, and it is not the way a friend looks at another friend. When looking at his face there is also no compassion being shown from a family member or someone that cares on his face. The man's arms in the painting are not inviting to the woman, which shows the man as not aware of Sleeping Beauty as a real person, rather than a possession that is his to show off. He does not come across to the woman as comforting and that she is just there to be observed not to be shown as affection. It is very mind boggling in what this man wants from Sleepy Beauty. As stated earlier there is not much to see about him since he is fading into the background. He is face is pointed down towards her, and it is not focused on anything but this woman, or as we later see a prize.

The body language of the woman in the painting tells the viewer everything that is needed to know about her. The woman that is being spoken about is of course Sleeping Beauty. It is hard to tell if she is dead or alive in the painting. When looking at her, it looks like she is not just laying down to sleep. She does not look like she is comfortably sleeping in her bed. Her head is tilted back and her arms are flopped, as if she is passed out or just fallen. Her body posture is off, and it is very tricky to see what she feels or what is going on with her because there is no 

sign of life in her. In pictures, there is a possibility to be able to see what the character or figure in the painting is going to accomplish or what its motives are. She looks very graceful and just there. Which is very ironic that the main set of this painting is sitting there as if on a display. The woman has no expression, but she is so important in the work because she is the focus of what the viewer wants to see. She is what there is to look at, the Sleeping Beauty, resting or dead upon a bed or couch for all to see her. This brings back to the thought of the man viewing her as a possession, because she is just lying there, waiting to be viewed. The way the woman is on the pillow with the blanket over her, looks as a doll or object in a case. It is as if the man put his possession, which in this case is the woman, on the pillow and set her up not to be touched or interacted with, but to be observed by others. 

Everything that is in a painting is done with precision and detail so that the viewer can fully intake what he or she is looking at. Sleeping Beauty, the woman in the picture, is being shown as an exhibit. The lighting is focused on her because she is the main thing to see. When a display is being shown the light is pointing on what is to be focused on the most, based on its value of importance. The lighting helps the viewer see that because this man is standing in the dark, and is smaller in size, that the woman is to be looked at and analyzed rather than being a human that is interacted with. The look on the mans face and his arms not showing affection, proves that he does not the woman, she is only a matter of an object that it to be looked at not touched. He has no gifts or well warming invitations of greeting, to show that he thinks of her as anything but a possession. The woman does herself no justice that she is laying there without any look of 

happiness or that she is laying with her head tilted back with flowers draped over her, as if she is a showcase that is being ready to be shown to the world. The man is ready to parade and reveal Sleeping Beauty, showing her off as an object of display, with the help of the composition of the painting, the man's look and arms, and the way Sleeping Beauty is presented on the bed. 
