The image on the page 46 comes from a magazine cover. This magazine is called "Weird Tales". The image is painted by artist, R. M. Mally. In this image, some light come from corner illuminate a dark place. The light reveals a man who get shackled in the darkness. He is a white man or Asian man because his skin color. His hair color cannot be determined because it is hid by the shadow. Some skeletons surround this man and stretch their hand toward the corner where the light come from. This man is totally naked in this image. He is very strong but these iron shackles limited his movements. They locked his hand, feet, and his waist. His face shows that he is full of despair, but his eyes does not. Even his eyes almost closed, he is still looking for the light, the hope. At the top of this painting, there is the magazine name, "Weird Tale". An article name and its evaluate write behind the man. It writes "The Spirit Fakers of Hermannstadt by Houdini, The most Miraculous True Story ever written". The date and the price of the magazine at the bottom of cover. Painting is the best way to make this image because photo is very hard to create an ideal environment like painting. Painting can build some unrealistic thing in the image, such as these no damaged skeletons and the strange shackle style. Another reason for using painting is that this image was painted in 1924. At that time, camera was not as good as modern camera. It needs more work and time than painting, so it would raise the cost for magazine publisher.

The resource showed that the image is a cover for scary story magazine. The image has to make readers have fear. For this reason, it created a creepy environment. It also needs to draw people attention and stimulate their interest, so the man appear in this image. This man should play an important role in the scary story. He maybe a man who provides clue or he is the main character. One of the scene will be this prison like place. The readers will be interested in how this man get prisoned in darkness and why he is caught by others. They want to know why this man is naked and the reason he get limited like this. The light and his strong body make readers think he is alive. The strong body give readers a idea that he is hard to be beat down. Readers will want to know whether he can or cannot escape from the prison. Actually this image featuring one of the greatest magician, Houdini. This image not only has the advertise function, but also it deepen the impression which the magic give. After the reader see the magic show, they will try hard to find this man and this scene in the show. They will try to overcome their fear to watch the show. When they find the scene in the magic, they will find that their fear cannot be stopped. They will be afraid of the death of magician. They do not want the magician turn a skeleton after the show. The horrible description for the skeletons makes the reader feel how crazy the magician is. The environment in the show force the reader to replace the image with the bad future which magician died on the way to escape.

This image did a great success on advertising and making impression. If the artist choose other material, it cannot influence people like this. For example, the artist use other kind of environment like entering the prison. It cannot make the reader think the magician is hard to escape. They need some evidence to prove the hardness during escaping. Using the some hard situation to be the painting material is totally different. The iron chain in the picture is a very good evidence to show the magician has no way to escape. His naked body showed that he does not bring tools to help him to escape. In the magic, hiding the secret of show is the basic point. Revealing the core point of magic will make it become boring. No tools and naked body can make people to guess how the magician will escape. This will attract them to watch the show and think the show more and more. 

In this image, all the things have different meaning. The light in the image makes it easy to find the symbolization. It is hope for the man in darkness. He is looking for light meaning that he is looking for the hope and the way that can help him leave this evil place. It also means freedom for this man, because he is shackled here. This light is so small in the image. It means that the hope is very small for the man. He is hardly to reach his freedom. These skeletons are the people who failed in escaping from here. It means the dangerous and hardness on the way to freedom. They raised their hands toward the light, the hope, but they failed and turn into the losers, these skeletons. They symbol the despair on the way to freedom, because of their raising hand. The reason is that these people have hope before, and they try hard to find the way out. Although they faced the way to leave, they still become more despair after they got caught. They wanted to touch the freedom before they died but something ended their life. Shackle in the image is the obstacle which stop the man to go into light. It limited the movement of this man. One of the iron chain connected with shackle which is on his waist. This chain stretch like a line, and it looks like that is pulling this lamentable man back into shadow. The shadow symbolize the evil force which prisoned this man. Shadow surround these people and become a wall to divide them from the sunshine. People was pulled into the underworld by these darkness.

In conclusion, this image did an amazing job for advertising . It attracts the reader come and give them dramatic feeling in the show. The meaning in the image also gives reader to think a lot. The symbolization which is implied is a good point for reader to consider and enjoy. 

R.M.Mally, Cover of the pulp magazine Weird Tale(March 1924, Vol.3, No.3) featuring "The Rats in the Walls" by H.P.Lovecraft. The Carolina Reader for English 101. Columbia. The Department of English, USC Columbia. 2014. Print.
