Do you ever feel like you are being watched by someone even when you know you are alone? That idea might scare you. But if someone really is watching you, how would you behave? Ordinarily you will try to be a good person. Making a good impression is very important, it is what will make people whether treat you with respect or disrespect.

To start with, the concept I'll be deliberating in this essay is observation, and how it affects people's behaviors. From Michel Foucault's book Discipline and Punish there is a chapter specifically about Panopticism. He elaborates the Panopticon Prison as a circle, the prisoners' cells are on the inside perimeter of the prison, also there is a tower in the middle of the prison. That's where the concept jump in. Some say there's a guard up there, watching the prisoners, but non of the prisoners really know if that's true. However, they still wouldn't take the chance of doing anything wrong, they were afraid of being spotted and getting punishment for doing something they were told not to do. Foucault named the tower "the perioheric ring," he also describes it as: "a tower that is pierced with wide windows that open onto the inner side of the ring."(Foucault, 244). "The Panopticon is a machine for dissociating the see/being seen dyad: in the peripheric ring, one is totally seen, without ever seeing; in the central tower, one sees everything without ever being seen."(Foucault, 245).  Foucault clarifies that prisoners are obeying the rules by thinking they are being watched, even if they can't see the person watching them.

Moreover, Foucault mainly talks about discipline and how power is used in discipline, how it is used on people to adjust them as the user of the power would like to. Still, observation is the initial part of discipline; because we can't punish someone for something he might didn't do. For example, if a little kid went to his mother and told her that his brother hit him, she can't punish him unless she knows that he really did it, and if she did punish him without finding the truth that would probably affect the kid in a very bad way. That's why observation is very important to the concept of discipline.

People tend to perform more appropriately when surrounded by others than when they're by themselves. Observation helps people improve their personalities and qualities. A lot of young people do a lot of irresponsible things, and observation helps those young people to change their attitude in two ways: the first one is that they observe whoever is their model or the person they look up to, and see that these people their looking up to do not do the things they do, therefore they try to avoid doing those things again. The second way is that if they are with their friends then their friends will observe their activities, and see that they are behaving in an inappropriate way. Once they tell them their opinion they will try to change towards good manners.

Additionally, parents always look after every detail their kids do, and if they don't they should. Kids do lots of unwise things without thinking twice about them, and that leads them to a regrettable situations. That's why parents should guide them to the straight path, when the kids are spotted doing something wrong parent should not only use punishment, but also teaching. Teach them what exactly they did wrong and make sure they don't repeat it. Also, when they do a good thing give them credit for what they did and make them feel proud about it.

In conclusion, observation assists in refining society, and making each individual successful in other people's eyes. For that reason the concept of observation should be administered in most of our work places. Since every person is improving through it.
