Imagine a day without cells phones or access to the internet, a day locked away in your room with no communication to the outside world, isolated only with your own thoughts. In the story, "The Yellow Wallpaper" by Charlotte Gilman, the main character Jane lived a life of solidarity, unable to communicate with other individuals and promote self expression. Jane also endured extreme restraints given by her husband John to not participate in any activity that allows stimulation because it might aggravate her condition. Little did he know enabling his wife to participate in activities was the worst thing he could have done for her. Jane's struggle to rise above the repression of her husband, break free of isolation, and motif of this story provide evidence for the reasoning behind her self- destruction. 

The relationship between Jane and her husband is clearly defined when the audience learns of Johns name, and she identifies herself as her husband's (Johns) wife, and not by her name. This type of self identification states the power imbalance within their relationship. Jane was unable to identify herself as her own person she referred to herself in a way that made her seem as if she was the property of her husband. Jane's status in the relationship is revealed when she states, "If a physician of high standing and one's own husband, assures friends and relative that there is really nothing the matter one but temporary nervous depression..., what is one to do?"(Charlotte Gilman). From the beginning she feels beneath her husband instead of as an equal. Jane's life was run like a dictatorship, as she was the peasant and her husband was the ruler. John dominates Jane in a patronizing manner, making her feel as if she in incapable of speaking for herself. He then prescribes a treatment he sees fit and tell her to, "exercise self- control over her irritation with him "(Gilman). This statement could not be more ironic due to the fact that he controls every aspect of her life making her feel like she was unappreciative of all the help he had given her. John's dominance over his wife does not stop there; he furthers his control when he inhibits her from writing in her journal. Although Jane believes that writing would be beneficial to her recovery, she allows John to remain in control making her the powerless house wife.

The overwhelming feeling of isolation is presented as Jane describes, "there are hedges and walls and gates that lock, and lots of separate little houses for the gardeners and people...I never saw such a garden - large and shady, full of box-bordered paths..."(Gilman). This statement reveals the severity of Jane's isolation from the outside world. She describes everything as separate and divided from one another, locked in like a prisoner, much like how she is held captive in her own room. A room which she did not want to be in, a room her husband had chosen for her. Once again Jane's preference was not taken into consideration; she was ignored when she gave her opinion on the room that she would have liked, while her husband had the final say on the matter. For had she only known that this room was the beginning of her self-destructive path to insanity, Jane set aside her desires in order to fallow in line with her husband lead. Jane's opinions, wants, and wishes did not matter to her husband, for she was not considered to be of equal value. For women are beneath men in this society and a women's voice went unheard. 

The motif of this story explains the emotion that Jane carries within. The daytime and sunshine represents the control John has over her. During the day her husband has "a schedule prescription for each hour in the day."(Gliman) This associates the daytime with repression; Jane feels as if she is restrained by her husband and his demands. The wallpaper symbolizes the internal conflict that resides in Jane's mind. She explains how the pattern on the wallpaper seems to, "plunge off at outrageous angles; destroy themselves in unheard of contradictions."(Gliman) As the wallpaper being to be stripped apart it symbolizes Jane's struggle to break free of her restraints and become her own person. Jane is trapped within herself, internally wanting to express her emotions but externally afraid of what the outcome might be. The nighttime or moonlight reveals the conflict that haunts Jane. She states, "At night in any kind of light... and worst of all by moonlight, it becomes bars! The outside pattern I mean, and the woman behind it is as plain as can be"(Gilman). During the day time she is unable to see her entrapment, but at night her imprisonment is exposed. At night there was not enough light to mask the shadows that were cast by the moon light, the shadows that portrayed prison bars that kept Jane locked away excluded from the outside world.  Jane could see her life unravel and her road down a self-destructive path. 

In conclusion, Jane's strives to overcome the obstacles of repression fell short. She was unable to be seen as equal value to her husband which in return made her feel like she was beneath him. Although she was able to recognize that her thought and opinions did not matter, Jane was weak and helpless in the matter of making her voice be heard. Jane's constant struggle to break free from the ball and chain that was holding her back fell short, leading her further down the road of self- destruction. Ultimately Jane's lack of self confidence and timid personality lead to her demise. 
