The first memorial in the nation's capital honoring women's military service is on the grounds of the Vietnam Veterans Memorial in Washington, D.C. This picture shows military women surrounding a dead man. The statue is for people learning about the Vietnam and those women in the medical department. In addition, it may have been for the women who survived during the Vietnam period and who helped the soldiers stay healthy and ready. The Carol M. Highsmith archive created this lovely statue to depict victory for women and support. The medium of this is a photo and the genre is art. They both depict a sense of need, help, honor, and women being a powerful source without even fighting in the war. There is no written text along with this picture, which makes it an even more powerful statue, makes you think even harder about what it is trying to say, and the picture sends off a message all by itself. It gives the viewer a chance to give its own meaning and interpretation of it. 

The setup is in a way that tells us about the war and the women are tending to wounded or dead men of Vietnam. It is set up to show that women stand their ground and they really cared about the men and did everything they could to help the suffering. The picture is at an angle that allows us to feel like the women in the statue are more powerful. It is at an angle below the people and this makes them above us, which also shows that they are more important than we are. It shows that women can be a huge part in war even without fighting and even in certain times and periods. The background is very pretty; you cannot have an ugly background with a powerful centerpiece like that. With such a beautiful and powerful statue that feeds off to us and makes us feel emotionally attached to it, you need to have a great background for it. They are on sandbags so this has to be an aftermath of maybe someone who was hiding behind them but still ended up shot in action. 

The statue of women in the military service is asking us to take the women in our lives seriously, to honor the women who saved our Vietnam family members/husbands/veterans, and to think about all the hardships that these women have been through. In addition, to think differently about the Vietnam and to take a minute and think about the roles/jobs/risks women took during the Vietnam War. It also demands us to join forces, to think about women in a more mannerly way, and to think about all the sacrifices. Women shed tears and they went through pain and suffering just to protect and tend to the men. It demands us to not only dwell on the past, but to thank those who saved many lives or tried to save lives and were too late. Most of all to believe in the greats that came before us and made the United States the way it is now.

Another quality of the picture is that it makes us feel sad, respectful, thankful, and very honoring. It gives us a chance to understand the reasons and struggles these amazing women went through more clearly. They have taken many risks just to assist men they probably do not even know. Some may have left their families and children. In addition, these women have gave men a chance to live on with their lives and go back to their families. These women mended wounds, gave comfort, and gave their support 100% every single day. 

Some symbols that the reader gets from the picture are respect, honor, care, belief, relief, hope, dedication, support, power, teamwork, and discipline. Respect because it is kind of a celebration or thank you statue to those women who sacrificed everything they had for one small but major job. Honor because it is honoring the outstanding work of them in war and showing us how much they truly care about the men. Care because the women cared so much for the soldiers and if they did not they would have applied for the job. They definitely could just stay at home and care for their families, but they cared for soldiers of USA instead for a greater purpose. Belief because the people who enlisted these wonderful impactful women to the team had faith in them that they would not back down under any circumstances and will fight through struggles no matter what. Relief is a big symbol because maybe they are happy that it is over and the women who survived are now looking at this statue like "I made it." It gives every women a sense of hope that no matter what we can do it too. Hope shows throughout the whole statue especially in the face of the women. She may know he is dead, but she still is checking to make sure. 

Once the reader looks at this, it may show dedication on each women's face. The women are dedicated to go to every person on the battlefield and do all they can to make sure there is no chance they are alive. When one looks at this it also shows that the women have support in everyone and from everyone. They are not alone in this quest and that they will always have help. Everyone needs help to try to change the world. Finally yet importantly, it shows power, teamwork, and discipline. All three of these go together because without one you have an incomplete task. Each one feeds off each other. The statue shows these three the most and these are the most important symbols the reader gets from it. 

My grandfather told me that, "they were always working hard and when I saw that monument in D.C I almost shed tears because that is an exact replica of his friends pal and the nurses trying to help him survive." This touched the heart of my grandfather. He said, "this was a great way to thank the women who made it out alive." To be able to see this statue of working women fighting for lives in the army is very touchy. Almost as if, we actually mean something in the world. Women are important somewhere in the world you just have to find that place. The Vietnam memorial is such an amazing idea and who ever thought of it is a grateful and thankful person and that person has probably touched many people's lives. 
