Reading every single detail in visual texts might be difficult because no one knows what were the painter's and photographer's thoughts when they were painting, or taking the photo. In the visual text that is on page 311 on " The Carolina Reader", we see that there is something unusual going on the painting because the room is messy and there some people running to the door. As we see, on the bottom of the painting, the title of the painting is " The Ghost", so the painting has to be about a ghost. Showing the whole room has certain meaning that the painter wants to deliver, and the candle that the ghost holding is controlling of the brightness of the room.  

As we see, in the first two words of the text below the picture, it says " The Ghost", which certainly means that there is a ghost in this image. As we concentrate more at the women that is in the middle of the image. We see that she is levitating because there are no legs touched to the floor, and also as we see, that the woman's face is different from the rest of people's faces, which apparently means that she is the ghost. Furthermore, as it's also seen from the people who are besides the women, their faces expressions eventually says that they are scared and frightened and trying to run from her. For instance, the man who is standing near the woman, is waving his hand as his saying " Stop, I did not do anything", and there is a girl hanged to him and from her faces expressions, she seems scared. In addition, as we concentrate on people's legs and bodies that are on the left of the image, they are in a running status which means that they are escaping from something, which is apparently escaping from the ghost. Thus, it's obviously that the woman that is in the middle is the ghost that the text means because noticing that the woman is levitating, and her legs are not touching the floor, and people's faces expressions and legs moving status shows that they are scared of her. 

Different angles of the same image may present a different meaning because every angle shows different details, background. In this visual text, the whole room is presented, and also what is around the room like the door that is in the left, which means that the painter wants to illustrate what is really happening in the whole room what certain effect that the ghost affected in people while he, or she appeared. For example, the angle of the painting shows the door that is in the left, and as its shows from the people's body statues, they seem running, which conclude that as the ghost appeared, people freaked out and ran to the door. In addition, the angle of the painting also shows that the furniture is not in their places such as the chairs and the tables, which means that people who were in the room were in peace, and perhaps discussing some issue. Then, the ghost suddenly appeared and ruined the quietness in the room and scared the people what made some of them running to the door and some of them are down on the floor. Furthermore, as we concentrate more behind the ghost, there is a small girl standing behind the ghost, which means that the ghost is apparently is defending for this girl. Thus, the people that were in the room were discussing an issue about this girl and the ghost appeared to help her. All in all, the painter choose the right angle to show every signal detail that is happening by showing the whole room and also to show the reaction of all people, who were in the room after they saw the ghost. 

The brightness of any image plays a big role because it could make the painting more interesting. Because this visual text is painted in the 1800s, black and white colors are only used in this painting, but the brightness of the painting makes everything clear. Even though the painting is in black and white, we can see clearly that the ghost is carrying something looks like a candle, which is shining. As it's noticed from the painting, the small part that surrounds the candle shines more than the rest of the painting that means that source of light comes from that part. Furthermore, As it appears in the painting, the candle that the is ghost holding is used to spread the light all over the room because the people who are near to the ghost can be distinguished by the color of their cloth; however, it looks darker in the further side of the room. For instance, as we can see people who are at far side of the room cloth color looks darker than people who are at the middle of the room. In addition, as we see the edges are unclear and if we take a look to the top of the painting we see person standing, who is unclear and his faces expressions are hard to be seen comparing people who stand near the candles. Thus, even though, the painting is in black and white, it's noticeable that the image could be seen clearly, and the candle is controlling the brightness of the painting because as far as it goes from where the woman stands, it becomes darker and unclear. 

In conclusion, it is very hard to know in every single detail of a painting because perhaps the painter thoughts are different. In this painting, there are a lot of details that are hard to understand, and to close read it. Also apparently, this painting is about a ghost because the title of the painting, which is on the bottom of the painting, is "The Ghost".  In addition, the angle of the painting plays a big role to illustrate what is happening in the room, and the candle that the ghost is holding is controlling the brightness of the room. All in all, even though the painting is in black and white, the angle of the painting make the details could be seen clearly, and also the effects of the painting are good because anyone could guess what is happening in the painting easily. 
