       Light existed since the beginning of existence. In addition, humanity has been discovering it gradually. All the way from Galileo to Addison, all of them dedicated their time and knowledge to make the world a better and more developed place. I read this one-page, brief text that speaks about the first attempts of humanity to measure the speed of light. Starting with the characteristics of light, and finishing with the determinant theory that light's speed has an accurate value. It is written by Edward Spargo. This essay will generally be about the writer delivers his overall message through the details.

       The text is divided by four paragraphs. The first paragraph speaks about how light travels. The first word that caught my sight was "galaxies", when he was giving an example of the light of stars. Galaxies is such a big word, because a galaxy contains several star systems. A single star system includes the Sun that we know, the Earth, and the other ten planets. So, imagine how big several star systems are. With some space gas and dust, they come together to construct what we refer to as a Galaxy. That big word makes the reader wonders about the significant abilities of light. Everyone knows that stars are a lot further than the Sun to Earth, and that enormous distance takes a long time. Spargo did the right thing by choosing the word "galaxies" instead of "the universe" or "outer space"; because that word perfectly describes the great distance between Earth and the stars; because the stars, including the Sun, are the major source of natural light. He also uses the "vacuum", which is referred to as empty space. But the same word also means the machine that is used to clean dirt on the floor. However, Spargo uses the word more than three times in the same paragraph, and so the reader will probably get it as he reads along the paragraph. Moreover, Spargo gave an example of the way light moves in vacuity, and he used the sound waves as a contrary. It clarifies various things, such as, why we cannot hear the explosions that happen in the Sun.

       We come to the second paragraph. The second paragraph clarifies that there is an invisible light, and a visible light, and explains how it is visible. Spargo starts by saying "It is much easier to describe the interaction of light with matter than to explain light itself."(Spargo) It is a little bit of a confusing sentence. When people get confused or don't know something, they will start looking for answers. It is human nature. In my opinion, that is a good method to attract the reader; because it makes him more focused on the sentence that follows it. There is a reference that Spargo wrote, and it was "strikes the eye." A misplaced reference, in my opinion; the reason is it looks more like a metaphor to the reader. And metaphors must refer to something different than what their words say, and their literal meaning has to have nothing to do with the sentence in any way.

       In paragraph three Spargo tells the story of the first experiment to determine the speed of light ever. First off he calls Galileo the renaissance scientist. Spargo could have used adjectives like brilliant, genius, or intelligent. But he chose to call him renaissance. Observably because Galileo was the first scientist to try to measure the light, consequently the scientists that came after him walked in his path. Fortuitously that's what Spargo speaks about next. He only referred to the scientists that carried out his idea as "Italian scientists." Later on in this paragraph, Spargo kind of changed his verb tense as he went back in time to the experiments of light. His speech changed to passive voice "two men were stationed." In addition, he uses a bunch of transition words to keep the reader aware and mindful of the series of actions. "Instantaneously," is a word Spargo used to describe light, and it's a very good choice of words, I mean adjective what can suit light better than that.

       The fourth paragraph is mainly about a historical event that happened in 1675. A Danish astronomer Olaus Roemer, had his own way of measuring the speed of light. He was to calculate the discrepancies of Jupiter's eclipses when the Earth is close to it, and when it's far.

This paragraph has a different form than the others. It contains a various amount of scientific terms. Such as, receded, diameter, and orbit. The final result of the experiment was that Roemer did not arrive at an accurate value for the speed of light, but he proved that light took time to move from one point to another.

       Finally, this text is simple, uncomplicated, and easy to understand. The word choice of it was tremendous, and directly connected to passage's message. Most sentences of the text were unproblematic and plain. The first and second paragraphs were generally in passive voice, on the other hand, the third and fourth paragraphs were in active; because they express actions that have been taken in the past. The broad style of the text was straightforward. There was an exceeding usage of punctuations. The text was a description type of writing, and it included all people, without specifying.
