The concept from the Plague City and Leprosy City, combines together to create one idea about Panopticism. In the Plague city, you were put into different segments. In doing, this there was no spreading of ideas or communication between others. It was a required process and there were enforcers throughout. There were Syndics that made sure you did what you were supposed to do and it was strict. It even says "at the beginning of the lock up, the role of each of the inhabitants present in the town is laid down, one by one; this document bears the name, age sex of everyone" (Foucault 241). They were dividing people up, and even would call the people of the town inhabitants. They do not call them people or humans, more as if they were animals locked up in a cage. There was division between everything. No one could be in contact with other people and there was no transmission of thoughts, attitudes, or ideas that came across you, it would remain only with you. The concept of being of being analyzed comes from the plague city in seeing who and what someone is and that they are taken as a unit rather than whom someone is inside. The leprosy city concept was the marking part, so someone was marked and analyzed to live a panoptic lifestyle. In the Leprosy City, people were marked and so there was exclusion. You were based on one thing or another and would go either to that one side or to the other. It could be simply as the health verses the sick being separated. Foucault uses this concept to show how the Plague City and the Leprosy City come together to create Panoptical, which can lead to another concept of a mode of organizing Discipline. These concepts help control the discipline and are the building blocks for the panoptical society.

This interests me; because when I was reading this and this concept came out to me, the first thing that popped into my head was sorority recruitment. That process was exactly like how those two cities worked. I was both marked and analyzed throughout two weeks of my life. If I could barely stand that for two weeks of my life, I could not even begin to imagine what it would be like to have this going for my life. It just really shocked me when I read this; my mouth dropped because there were so many similarities, I mean it was not as intensifying as the two cities were, but do not get me wrong; recruitment was definitely one of the most intense chapter of my life so far. I was held in a unit and was not a certain person. I was separated not by name but by pi chi group number. I was cut into a category. It was more that I was an object rather than a human being during the first week. I would have to do everything I was told or I would be removed from the process. I had to walk in high wedges across hills and stand in the hot sun without sound. I was not allowed to move at certain times. Over half of the process I was not allowed to talk to anyone besides the girls that were recruiting and the pi chis. I was not allowed to have any contact with the outside world or any of the people that were also rushing. The worst part about it, I think is that I was placed in something they called the holding cell. I was not allowed to go outside of the cell during the different house parties because they did not want me to give my opinion or spread my ideas about the different sororities. 

This allows me to think differently. I can make decisions based on what I want to think and don't need the opinion of others telling me what I should think or what I like and don't like, and I believe that idea is very crucial especially in the society we live in today. Everyone always does what others do and if you were marked and analyzed you are no longer doing what everyone else is doing, I agree that you are trapped in a way, but at least it is your own thoughts and actions, not everyone else's. I think this has affected me positively because I see how certain things happen and what it is like to live as an individual, be a person yourself, and not listen to what other people are convincing you to do, and be your own self with no outside influence. I really do not think there is much to change but if the world turned out how recruitment is, I think we would not enjoy ourselves. I think it would be nice for everyone to be original but if everyone was like that, than everyone would keep to himself or herself and we would have a lot less than we do now. 
