The world is filled with poverty. It is something that has been for ages and has not been diagnosed yet. This is because everyone sees poverty in a different way. In The Necklace, the text uses word choice, writing style, and verb tenses to support the theme of wanting very actively to be passive. In addition, he uses description in details and shifting of writing types to support the theme of brutal poverty. 

 The story opens with listing all the elements that the main character, Mathlide, does not have "she had no dowry, no expectations, no means of being known, understood, loved, wedded, by any rich and distinguished man". The way Mathlide is described to us tells us what to expect from the Mathlide. Using the word "no" constantly forms a negative sight towards Mathlide from the reader. In addition, the text uses words such as "suffered", "unhappy", and "poverty" in which rises the claim of the reader to think badly towards the character from the beginning. This is helpful because it makes the reader predict the climax of the story will be something suffering, since all is known about Mathlide is nothing but negativity. Another example is the word "she", the text uses it as an initial word in his sentences for the first few paragraphs to show that the story revolves around Mathlide. The text also uses repetition of words to show how Mathlide is constantly doing the same action. For example, "She thought of the silent antechambers hung with oriental tapestry... She thought of the long salons fatted up with ancient silk...". The text uses the word "thought" to emphasize how deep Mathlide's imagination goes. She is constantly thinking of doing what she cannot do. Her constant ambition to have a life that is not meant for her is shown by the repetition of the word "thought". All these repetitions and word choices lead the reader to think negatively towards Mathlide, which is what the text tries to deliver. The constant pessimism around Mathlide in overall contributes to the theme of her wanting very actively to be passive. 

In order to support the theme, the text needed to be in a direct form. That is why he wrote the story in a third-person view. This type of view can show a more outside opinion on the character and the story, which makes the author unbiased. Another reason for writing in third-person view is to obligate the wider view and so that the text presents words as facts, not as opinions "She would so have liked to please, to be envied, to be charming, to be sought after." . Furthermore, verbs that the text uses are in the past tense, which play a great role to sustain the theme of Mathlide actively to be passive. Using past tense often shows that the action that has been done is either a great one or a horrible one. In this story, by looking at the theme proposed and the ending of the story, it is shown that she looks at her actions as bad decisions and depraved choices "what would have happened if she had not lost that necklace?" . 

Mathlide thought that happiness came through money. In fact, she thought that not having a luxurious life is a disgrace. When she had the necklace and the dress that empowered her with happiness, she thought she had reached the rank that she always fantasized. The necklace made her feel as she was from the rank who considers themselves rich. A rank that she saw was rightfully her own but could not reach it. However, when she lost the necklace and worked to repay it, she started to appreciate what little she had, the food, a home, and a loving husband, was worth a lot more than how she saw it. She returned to her reality and figured out her true position in life, which is poverty. Mathlide was involved in three phases. The first phase, which was almost her entire life, was being labeled as poor but in denial. The second phase was being labeled as rich for a very brief moment, which was the time at the ball. The third and final phase, which lasted for ten hardworking years, was being labeled poor again but with acceptance. These three phases show the theme of how poverty is brutal.

Rich people usually never value what they have. As for poor people, the moment they possess or think of something that is a treasure for them, they look at it in every explicit detail. In The Necklace, the text uses explicit details to support the theme of brutal poverty. We can see a pattern in the story, which is the shifting from narration to description type of writing. The story begins with description of Mathlide, "She was one of those pretty and charming girls who are sometimes, as if by a mistake of destiny, born in a family of clerks.". After that, we look to a detailed description of Mathlide's imaginations "She thought of the silent antechambers hung with Oriental tapestry, lit by tall bronze candelabra...She thought of dainty dinners, of shining silverware ...". Furthermore, the type of the writing shifts to narration "But, one evening, her husband returned home with a triumphant air, and holding a large envelope in his hand." . The story narration continues, but stops when she picks up the necklace from her friend "Her hands trembled as she took it.". The shifting to description in these situations expresses that the text wants to emphasize Mathlide's feeling. Since, she is in the poor phase when the writing shifts to description, it shows how brutal poverty can be an how desperate poor people are. 
