Gender and sex are widely used terms in our every day's life. When we define sex, we mean to say the biological and physiological characteristics that differentiate men from women. On the other hand, gender is defined as the socially constructed roles for men and women. This raises the question as to why women are looked upon different from men? For past two centuries, women have been constantly striving to establish equality between men and women. Throughout their lives, women have suffered by satisfying societal needs rather than satisfying their own needs. Feminism is a concept where social, political, and economic equality exists between genders. Feminism has evolved greatly from first wave feminism in 19th century and second wave feminism in 20th century to third wave feminism in this 21st century. First wave feminism focuses on women's legal stages of equality such as women's right to vote. However, second wave feminism focuses on much more broader issues such as social and cultural barriers for women. Second wave feminism redefined women's life according to societal expectations. By examining the two articles, 'Characteristics of Boys' and Girls' Toys' and 'Early adolescents' experiences with and views of Barbie', we get a deeper understanding of the role of women in the 20th century which was first emphasized in the poem 'Barbie Doll'.

Barbie Doll is a poem published in 1973 during feminist movements and hence this poem displays women's situation in the society. One way to look at feminism is by focusing on women's careers or job options. Feminism allows women to have wide career options and thus have jobs, which were considered as male-oriented jobs previously. However, during the twentieth century, women were only allowed to do gender-oriented jobs as specified by the society. Women had limited options on choosing their careers but mostly all their jobs were oriented to housework. This idea of a women being attached to the house is brought on from earlier on when the "girlchild" is born (Piercy 194). The article, "Characteristics Of Boys' And Girls' Toys" provides relevant information on how toys have a significant impact on a child's development (Blakemore and Centers 620). Along with this, various studies done by Blakemore and Centers show prominent results, which gives good support to this concept. By providing distinctive toys to boys and girls, the society expects children to follow the footsteps of those toys later on in life. For example, in the poem, we are told that girls are "presented dolls that did pee-pee" which shows that girls are supposed to follow dolls and do what the society expects just as how dolls obey their owners (Piercy 194). Moreover, family members present "GE stoves and irons" to the baby girlchild representing the kind of work she is expected to do once she grows up (Piercy 194). This puts emphasis that a girlchild is expected to know how to cook and iron by the time she is a woman. This further explains power and control adults have on young children. So from an early age, young girl's mind is able to associate with adult behavior. Therefore, girl toys are "encouraged fantasy play that was centered on domestic life" (Blakemore and Centers 620).  In fact, girls were to only deal with housework and leave all the aggressive work to boys.

Toys also include "wee lipsticks the color of cherry candy" which again emphasize on how a girl should focus on her outer appearance in order fit into the society (Piercy 194). Typically, lipsticks are products, which are used by women to enhance their sexuality as well as to cover the way they actually look. By using enjambment in the first four lines, the speaker puts forward the fact that girls are brain washed to be someone they are not. Moreover, girls are "presented dolls" which again puts emphasis on "appearance-related toys" (Piercy 194)  (Blakemore and Centers 621). These facade toys have higher rating on creativity, nurturance, attractiveness and manipulability which give an impression that girls are expected "to learn that appearance and attractiveness are centered to their worth" (Blakemore and Centers 632). In contrast to girltoys, boys are given toys that were not part of any daily domestic life and hence their toys were categorized as having higher sociability, competitiveness, aggressiveness and constructiveness. All these distinctive toys characteristics show gender development in early years of child development. 

The title of the poem 'Barbie Doll' has a significant impact on the outlook of the poem. The article, 'Early adolescents experiences with and views of Barbie' states that Barbie doll was "one of the most successful toys" in the 20th century (Kuther and McDonald 39). Kuther and McDonald conducted two quantitative studies where they acquired information from young adolescents who revealed their positive and negative feeling towards this controversial toy, the Barbie doll. Barbie was an icon of female beauty, which was appreciated within the society. With such an icon, girls were to "embody such roles" once they hit the puberty line (Kuther and McDonald 40).  Similarly, in this poem, "magic of puberty" is an indication that the girl will transform and her earlier doll play might affect her psychologically (Piercy 194). However with this transformation comes pain and suffering as she is criticized for having "great big nose and fat legs" (Piercy 194). As the main character starts to question her physical appearance, her self-esteem drops because she is not physically approved by the society. The society expects girls' body to replicate that of a Barbie dolls whose body shape is "perceived as attractive" because of its fertility and health (Kuther and McDonald 40).  

Due to the Barbie doll influence in the twentieth century, the society viewed physical appearance of a women much more important than her outstanding intrinsic talents. For example, in the poem, the girl was described be "intelligent", "possesses strong arms and back", and "manual dexterity" but she isn't appreciated for having these quality (Piercy 194). Instead, the girl is repeatedly criticizing for lack of impressive physical appearance, "fat nose on thick legs" (Piercy 194). All these examples are a proof that women's physical appearance is much more important than her inner talents. With this we can see that the society expects "perfection" just like how the Barbie is (Kuther and McDonald 43). And many young adolescents who expressed their negative emotions towards the Barbie doll dislike this concept of perfection. At a very young age, young girls don't like the fact that women should possess the ideal quality of perfection where physical beauty should be their utmost concern. Moreover, the poem informs that a girl is supposed to "play coy", "exercise, diet, smile, and wheedle" (Piercy 194). Through these unnatural acts, we can say that the society expects her to deny her strengths and to portray someone she is not. Even if she feels miserable, she is supposed to smile to assure everyone she is a 'perfect' woman in the society. Through this, one concludes that women are expected to mold themselves in order to be accepted into the society. 

The never ending cycle of attempting to look better, being criticized, rebuilding confidence and repeating the cycle again until one eventually gives up. After repeatedly following this cycle, she comes to her breaking point where she wears out just "like a fan belt" (Piercy 194). This simile emphasizes that the girl is frustrated from constantly trying to please the society and hence gives up on trying to look like a Barbie. Hence, she decides to get to rid of imperfection by cutting "off her nose and legs" (Piercy 194). This gruesome act represents the extent of social pressure on women. According to the article, "Early Adolescents' Experiences With, And Views Of, Barbie," when girls were young, they used Barbie in three types of play: Imaginative play, Torture play, and Anger play. Imaginative play is where children play scripts relating to family life, and arranging glamorous events for the Barbie such as weddings, fashion shows and proms. Here comes the concept of pretend where children learn to engage in make-believe plays. Torture play means damaging the Barbie in as many ways possible. When girls were asked about their views on Barbie's, they confessed that Barbie's body is unrealistic and too prefect. They even suggested that marketers should  "make a fat" Barbie (Kuther and McDonald 43). Thus, this explains the girl's frustration in the play where she tries to be perfect. Anger play is when girls were seen to be repeatedly releasing contained emotions with the Barbie when they were angry. Apparently, children were comfortable with releasing heir hostile emotions with this play. Thus, this explains the girl's frustration in the play in trying to be perfect. The concept of perfection overtakes a girl's life by molding a girl into someone she is not.

Last stanza of the poem describes the events following the girl's death. The word, "displayed" shows that she is being looked upon as a thing just how she was looked upon as doll throughout her life (Piercy 194). The lines, "Doesn't she look pretty?/Consummation at last./To every woman a happy ending" reveal that with her death, the society is finally satisfied with perfect fake appearance (Piercy 195). Even at death, she is made to look someone she is not. Moreover, the sarcastic tone in these lines exhibit the fact that society accepts her for what the society accepts from who she really was. 

To conclude, the readings from the articles 'Characteristics of Boys' and Girls' Toys' and 'Early adolescents' experiences with and views of Barbie' helps understand and make better connections with the poem. These readings help in bringing about the theme of 'Perfection' in the poem. Women in Second wave feminism experienced hardships, struggles, and troubles within themselves and within the society. The fact of not being accepted in the society impacts anyone emotionally and psychologically. The results of being emotionally imbalanced are horrific and gruesome as seen in this poem. For this reason, it is important to provide every human being with equal rights, equal opportunities and equal privileges without any discrimination. 

Blakemore, Judith E. Owen, and Renee E. Centers. "Characteristics Of Boys' And Girls' Toys." Sex Roles 53.9/10 (2005): 619-633. Academic Search Complete. Web. 6 Nov. 2014.
