Do Barbie dolls encourage young girls to be perfect? Everything in the Barbie doll is perfect, so girls want to be like her the perfect girls. When Barbie doll first appeared she was the perfect woman that all women dreamed of at that time because Women are being controlled and watched by men like a Barbie doll. Women were not getting the things that you wanted or deserved like jobs. 

In the "Barbie Doll," the author Marge Piercy says that the classmate said to the girl, " you have a great big nose and fat legs," what made the girl disappointed because all she wanted is to look perfect and look like Barbie (194). In the late 19th century there were no technology, boys were playing with fake guns, or playing outside, and girls spend most of the time playing with their dolls, so there is a doubt that they want to be like them. Moreover, Barbie dolls take most of the girl's time what make her think to be like her, which is impossible because it's just a doll. The question here why does young girls wanted to look like Barbie dolls? Perhaps the answer is because Barbie dolls let them imagine their selves as perfect grown women. Barbie dolls are dressed well and she can do everything she wants. In the article "What Barbie Dolls Have to Say about Postwar American Culture," The author Miriam Forman-Brunell says "Barbie, who had disproportionately long chorus girl legs, would help girls imagine themselves as autonomous adolescents," it looks that it is good thing to be an independent person; however, it might be a dangerous situation that a young girl acting like a plastic perfect doll because in the 1900s women's freedom was limited. Women couldn't do whatever they want because they were assigned for specific jobs to do like housekeeping. Thus, Barbie dolls are made to be a perfect young adult, which made girls want to be like them and act like them. 

In the 1900s young girls, or mainly women could be controlled like a Barbie doll. In the "Barbie Doll" poem, Marge Piercy says, " she cut off her nose and her legs," Perhaps she did that to be acceptable in the class. She wanted to be like the perfect Barbie, so everyone like her(Piercy194). Moreover, she is healthy and smart, but nobody cared about that. Women would like to live a normal life without controlling their own lives. They wanted to be equal with men. Men were controlling women like Barbie dolls. Barbie Dolls can be controlled by young girls, they change their cloths, change their hairstyle; to what ever they want they even can cut anything they wanted in their bodies.  Furthermore, young girls can put them wherever they want, and because Barbie dolls cant stand by their selves, girls can make them sit, or even stand by the wall. Thus, that what women were struggling with in the 1900s, men controlled everything. Men and women weren't equal at that time. 

Back to the 1900s women jobs were limited and every woman should expect what she will do in her life. In the article "The 1960s- 70s American Feminist Movement Breaking Down Barriers for Women," the author illustrate that most of the women should get married in their early 20s and start a family as fast as they can. When they have a family, they should spend all of her energy in "homeworking" and "housekeeping. Furthermore, women had limited jobs; most of the women were teachers, nurses, or a secretary. Women are unwelcome to the high rated jobs; for example, engineering had only one percent women at that time. So, there were ninety-nine percent men engineers. Thus, it's unfair to let women be housekeepers, nurses, and teachers and give the big jobs to men. Here men controlled women's job and limited them and women have no right to talk about this point because men were controlling everything. Furthermore, when men tell women what to do she knows that its not good for her but she still do it, but men do it for his own interest. In the "Barbie Doll," when they every said " Doesn't she look pretty", she knows that she is not pretty by cutting off her legs and her nose, but she is pretending to do what they say for their own interest(Piercy194). 

This all thing satisfies that when people want to present a girl they give her a doll or kitchen toys, but when they want to give a present to a boy they give fake guns, fake knives, or toy drilling tools. From the toys that being presented women are expected to be at home and doing homework by giving them kitchen stuff and men are expected to be strong and fight for his family and country by giving him toy guns and knives to play with. 

Even though some women were intelligent and healthy, they didn't get use of them because they want what satisfies their desires. For example, in the " Barbie Doll," the girl was smart and healthy, but they didn't care about it because her smartness and healthiness don't satisfy what they want from her (Piercy194). 

In conclusion, everyone have to have rights and also respect these rights.  Every Woman has rights to do anything she wants without being controlled, or criticized by anyone. Women are very sensitive, so anything could affect them. Some people say that women's life in the 1900s was better for them because women are meant to be nurses, secretary, or housekeepers. Moreover, Men should do the difficult jobs and accomplish the hard things that women cant do it; however, some women are willing to do this jobs and they want to do this kind of jobs to feel that they are part of the society.  All in all, women shouldn't be controlled like Barbie dolls, and should be included in high rated jobs. 
