This is one of the stories that give its readers a simple lesson about how bittersweet life could be. Guy de Maupassant had really done a great job in showing what being in need could do to a person making huge difference in the way of living between being in comfort and need. In The Necklace the author does a great job in making conversations live and full with emotions as if the reader is just at the corner of the room that the characters are in.

As you begin to read through the story you will find that the author intended to show Mathildes strong personality by telling what she always thought of by using her passive voice more often in the passage. As you reach the core of the story the more you will understand the characteristics of Mme. Loisel and her picture starts to get clearer in the reader's mind so you could almost describe her as if you knew her personally. In fact, Guy de Maupassant did not miss out a single detail about the characters looks, her nature her socialism, and the way she thinks. In fact, some moments during reading I felt as if was experiencing the same feelings as Mme. Loisel of happiness when she was charming the event and also her desperation when she thinks of where she could have been if she made other decision which she did not.

Mme. Loisel is a great example of who a typical graceful woman should be as the author describes her when he makes statements about her elegance and ingenuity. She is the woman that no man could deny being obsessed by her breath taking charm. However, what life had to unfold for her was not pleasing as she suffered so much in her life that she did not make the best of maybe because of the man she married or it's just the way it was meant to be for her with no luck at all. The author pictured her community as a community of criticism ruled by the rich ad everything awesome was going around them. So the middle class and poor people were not appreciated or a concern around there. This expresses the struggle that she was living in trying to blend in a society that was all about the money that the rich had and appearances.

It is absolutely amazing the way how Guy de Maupassant managed to described the joy and desperation in Mathildes life without being one sided. He always enriched hope in Mathildes heart when she was in misery. The mixture of words in his sentences of desperation and sadness in the story encountered by the joy and delight are what keeps you reading the story till the end, because not any writer could do that indeed. In addition to that, the use of direct and indirect speech quotations were obviously noticed and played a major role in making the story alive with conversations that reflected the life of Mathilde was living in. 
