Should people follow what the Islam says, or go for their rights? The Panopticon is like a prison except that there is no communication and interaction between the people. Moreover, there is guardian who stands inside The Ponaptic Tower, and observes every person around the tower. Similarly in Oman people have to follow what Allah imposed of rules because he is the watcher and observes every person. Because Muslim people in Oman believe that "Allah" has the power and he is the watcher, they attend to follow what the religion says. Such as: women in Oman must be observed by of her family member wherever she goes, and the relationship between men and women at work, school, and universities is limited. 

Some of the people think that the community should not continue on this approach because it's beyond the human rights, and the government should do something about it. However, all Muslims believe that Allah who makes the rules, and he has the power. The majority of Oman is Muslims, so all people have to respect these rules, and hold to them. Furthermore, anyone who obeys the rules, or the instructions of the religion will be punished. Like in the Ponptic Power, the one who has the authority of the Ponptic power has the power of everything. In addition, he is the one who makes the rules controls everything. People who are in the Ponptic Power must follow the rules and the instructions, or there would be a certain punishment. All in all, people who are Bentham's Panopticon are being controlled and can't do anything without permeation the same as in Oman, the religion is controlling the government, and so they can't change anything without their permeation.

 In addition, in Bentham's Panopticon the guardian sees everyone to make sure they don't contact with each other, or break the rules. In Oman this thing applies on women, every woman must be observed by her father, brothers, or husband if she is married, but women cant watch each other because religious people believe that women could fall in the same mistakes. Women in Oman don't have full rights like men do, for example, woman cant go out with unless one of her brother, father, or mother is with her what makes her feel uncomfortable and stay most of the time at home; however, men can go out by their selves without any observation from anyone. They want to make sure that she doesn't break the rules that Islam has for women. Similarly, in the text " Panopticsim" Michel Foucault says " Each individual, in his place is securely confined to cell from which he is seen from the front by the supervisor," women are seen by one of their family member who's strict with her and doesn't let her free. 

Moreover, in the Panopticon people were forbidden to communicate with each, so everyone produces his own work and they don't want their ideas to interfere with other people's ideas. In Oman men are forbidden to communicate with women unless she is one of their family member because religious people believe that men and women may seduce each other, which is completely forbidden in Islam. For example, girls and boys are separated in different schools because religious people believe that teenagers are in a very critical stage of age, so boys may hurt girls. Furthermore, in colleges and universities men and women can attend the same one, but the class is divided into two sections one for the men and one for the women to avoid any possible communication between them. Last, in work there would be limited contact between men and women because there is some work that they can't do it individually. Thus, men and women in Oman are kind of experiencing the same as what people who were in the Panopticon. 

In conclusion, men and women in Oman are experiencing the Bentham's Panopticon, but in a different way. They are being controlled by the religion and follow what it says. Women don't have fully rights like men do, the relationship between men and women is limited, and why couldn't the government interfere with this issue. Most of the people especially women hope that rules would change in Oman and have their fully rights. 
