One thing that I feel enlightening in Foucault's "Panopticism" is that the "various, profound processes" of the extension of the disciplinary institution (Foucault 251) "The functional inversion of the disciplines" (Foucault 251) is the first process Foucault mentioned, which I find it the most to agree with and it imply completely to the society, because of his example right after 

Foucault claimed that disciplines were first used to "neutralize danger and fix up mistakes"which shows folks fear to the existence of threats. Nowadays people are using disciplines as a "positive role" which they are trying to increase possible utility of individuals. This shows that people's attitudes to the disciplines changed by observing the difference from then and now. Disciplines nowadays are not shield for preventing bad anymore, it is more likely a "riding crop" that people are using it to train up a society in a positive way, although human beings became the "object to be trained" while being the subject themselves. For example, discipline in the military was not used to "preventing looting, desertion or failure to obey orders", it is now a "crop" urge on the military to be a skillful, powerful, efficient unity. The matter of which discipline is necessary but used-positively is good, while people can get locked up once the amount of used discipline become overwhelming because of the repeated procedures and mindsets were deeply accepted by people as a social norm. Hence the balance of controlling the amount of use of discipline becomes important of its own way.

Balancing is hard but necessary, because it exists within our daily life, on a scale from a small family to a big country. I've seen families that have fallen into an abusive relationship because they couldn't balance to use discipline well. Some of the parents use discipline to train their kids, to develop their kid's "interest" in a positive way, this helped a lot of children to win their advantages but sometime if parents push too hard, the kids will end up hating their "interest", such as pushing them to play the piano everyday for 8 hours and then they start to hate it, some of them even suicide because of this. Another scenario is when parents are using "discipline" as a shield, that it is used to prevent their child for doing wrong things, children get safety in a sort of way, but once parents are using discipline for every little thing that their kids do, they controlled their kids over-carefully, and sometime they end up beating them in order to achieve their goal, but they don't realize hurting their kids after a while. These are the experiences on small environment through out the real world, which influence us to think of how we act or how we are going to act as good parents that know how to keep the balance, that not to overvalue the use of discipline. Although the large environments seem a bit far away from us, without the balance of disciplines, we will not achieve things what we had already done. North Korea is a good example, that the leader overvalues the discipline and locked North Korea up, which now becomes fatuous.

This invisible balance has influenced me in a sort of way as well. I grew up in China, which discipline was overused to control the development of individual interest. There are only 9 mandatory classes in our high school, which we lost the opportunity to choose what classes we want. This leads to the lack of a dynamic educational system, which hide people's talent that lots of talented people are wasted. This balance is extremely important, and in order to get a faster progression and a much better society, where people can develop their interest to the best they can, it need to be fixed by our generation. 
