The "new woman" and her bicycle- there will be several varieties of her is my topic of my essay. This image contains a lot of information, we can see many different figures of women from this image. This image has a woman standing in the middle and six other ladies' images on the sides, they are all doing different works. Some of them are working, some of them are relaxing, and some of them are taking care of their kids, but they all have something in common, they all have something to do with their bicycles. These pictures indicated the fact that women's right was getting stronger in 1890s. By that time, they started to walk out of their homes, and participated in all different works. 

The first image we see in the picture is the woman in the center. She is wearing a big cloth, working shorts and a pair of long boot. She looks serious and determined to do her job, and the glasses make her look even tougher.  Because she is not a usually women's impression which are domestically and effeminate. Through her glasses, her eyes look straight up, and these eyes seemed like to tell us her boldness. She closed her mouth, chins up, it likes she wouldn't talk to anyone, all she is doing is standing there and looking far. Her short curly hair under the hat indicates her professional.  She puts both her hands in her pocket, and that makes her more inapproachable, because that posture looks unfriendly. People might think the women are like this are not easy to get along with. This posture expresses some of her confidence, but it also shows some of her pride and haughty. We can see there are three mice on her foot looking up to her, it's like she is the honor and majesty, people are like these mice and should always look up to her and respect her. These three mice are begging her for something, and this lady has the power to determine their lives. She is like the queen that who has the authority of people's life and her authority makes she inapproachable from people and cold. The background picture that she is standing front of is a woman feeding a mouse. This picture has the strongest contrast to the lady standing front of her, the one in the picture looks nice and peaceful, but the one who is standing front looks so strong and tough. The lady in the picture is feeding that mouse, but the front on is getting begged from three little mice. This contrast makes the front lady stronger and more authorized.

The top-left picture shows three ladies riding bikes, but there is a lady who is riding to a different direction than other ladies. We can see that lady has her own opinion, so that she is not following the other two ladies. This picture tells us that the ladies in that era are not following the most populated things, they all have their own ideas and they can do what is the best to themselves. The picture below that one is a lady who is riding a bicycle with a cradle in her arm, and there are two guys who hold brooms and seems like they were talking about that lady. The lady who is riding the bicycle is confident and happy, we can see this from her smiling face and her head-up riding posture. Even though she is riding with a cradle in her arm, she is still riding smoothly and stably. However, the two gentlemen behind her are just standing there judging her, they just leave their job aside and talking about that lady, which is so rude and impolite. The contrast between the lady and two guys highlights the confidence of that lady. The picture in the bottom-left corner shows a mother riding a bicycle which connected with a cradle, there is a baby playing in the cradle. The mother is riding so fast so that her hair is flying on the air, but that didn't change the baby's happiness in the cradle, therefore, we can tell how good the skill of the mother's riding.

The picture in the up-right corner shows a lady who is playing a role like a post officer, she is just riding through a corner. There is a man who is riding a bike with a big package on his shoulder, and the lady is riding without pressure. It's like the lady is the commander and the guy is working for that lady, so that lady looks comfortable. The picture below this one is two ladies are riding bicycles, one of them is handing a stuff to the other one, the other one is reading a book while she is riding a bicycle. Both of these two ladies look so confident on their riding skill, both of them can do another thing when they are riding bicycles. And also the picture tells us that ladies are more open in the public, they can talk to each other, handing stuff to others while they are riding bikes, and they don't care about the people who behind them is playing a big drum. The picture in the right-down corner shows a lady is checking a tomb and she is trying to put something on the tomb. She left her bicycle on the side, and checking the tomb by herself, it's so brave for a lady coming to a cemetery alone. The lady in the picture is wearing all black suit, which makes it creepier. All these images show that women are out of their "cage", they are ready to change the world by their power. The bicycles are just the first step to the free and democracy, they are heading to the better future.

These ladies are doing their jobs which they were not supposed to do before, but they can handle these jobs easily and confidently. Their bicycles are the icon that they have more power and confident. These ladies have the stronger power and confidence than they ever had before. Ladies are always trying to have their rights equalized to men's, in these pictures, ladies have already got these, even better than men's. Thinking of women's rights and feminist movements in the present, the ladies in the picture should inspire more women to pursue their rights. One day, women's rights would be equaled like men's.
