developed   from   the   formation   of   the   Panopticon   that   creates   the   notion   of   Objectification.   If   we   try   to   break   something   complex   into   it's   simplest   terms,   than   maybe   we   can   understand   

   The   Panopticon,   or   basis   for   this   idea   of   objectification,   is   an   architectural   design   for   a   prison   created   by   Jeremy   Bentham,   a   utilitarian.      This   structure   is   comprised   of   a   singular   tower   in   the   center   of   a   circular   periphery   building.   The   center   tower   was   used   as   a   

watchtower,   where   the   guards   would   supervise   over   the   inmates.   The   surrounding   periphery   building   held   several   cells,   each   which   only   occupied   one   inmate;   the   idea   being   that   if   they   were   all   separated   you   can   discipline   them   on   a   personal   level,   and   it   would   be   less   chance   of   a   revolt   if   you   are   unable   to   consult   with   others.      Another   aspect   of   the   Panopticon   described   is   the   lighting,   and   how   it   affects   the   structure.   It   is   said   "they   have   two   windows,   one   on   the   inside,   corresponding   to   the   windows   of   the   tower;   the   other,   on   the   outside,   allows   the   light   to   cross   the   cell   from   one   end   to   the   other."   (Foucault,   244).      This   makes   it   so   that   the   light   is   always   focused   on   the   watchtower,   constantly   reminding   the   inmates   that   the   guard   is   watching.      If   the   guard   is   always   watching   then   the   inmate   is   always   seen,   leaving   no   room   for   revolts   from   the   inmates.      Foucault   then   says,   "He   is   seen,   but   he   does   not   see;   he   is   the   object   of   information,   never   a   subject   in   communication."   

(Foucault,   244).      This   shows   the   objectification   created   on   each   cell   by   the   panopticon.   Since   each   inmate   is   separated   by   details   that   define   "them"   and   can   is   constantly   watched   by   others,   than   they   are   constantly   being   observed   and   made   into   objects   simpler   than   they   are.      For   example,   a   man   may   be   in   prison   for   murder   that   becomes   his   identifier.   Instead   of   being   John   Smith   a   complex   individual,   he   is   the   murder.   Through   out   history   however,   this   idea   of   objectifying   is   not   just   kept   for   prisons   but   it   has   become   a   part   of   how   we   think   about   everything.   We   come   to   discipline   a   topic   by   breaking   it   down   into   different   simpler   

study   of   life,   which   is   arguably   a   very   complex   thing.   There   are   many   aspects   to   life,   but   what   biology   does   is   break   facts   down   into   small   subjects   so   that   maybe   we   can   hope   to   understand   biology.   We   observe   living   organisms   by   cutting   off   a   piece   of   them   and   concentrating   on   it   under   microscope   lens.   This   is   how   the   cell   was   discovered,   which   is   a   good   example   of   objectification   or   simplification   also.      A   cell   is   the   smallest   and   simplest   unit   of   life,   a   group   of   cells   makes   up   a   tissue,   a   group   of   tissues   makes   up   an   organ,   a   group   

organisms   make   up   a   population,   populations   make   up   communities,   communities   make   up   ecosystems,   ecosystems   make   up   biospheres,   than   the   whole   earth   seems   to   be   derived   from   cells.   This   was   taught   on   the   first   day   of   biology   101.   We   were   taught   to   think   of   the   

world,   something   very   complex   with   a   lot   of   phenomenon,   could   all   be   explained   and   simplified,   by   observation   and   objectification,   into   something   as   simple   as   a   cell.   However   it   turns   out   the   cell   is   not   as   simple   as   you   would   think.   It   could   be   simplified   even   more   and   more   into   organelles   and   molecules   and   atoms   and   electrons   and   much   more.      If   we   did   not   objectify   ideas   and   facts   down   into   simpler   ideas,   than   how   would   we   ever   describe   such   complex   beings?   Well   we   could   not,   because   we   would   see   a   person   or   another   organism   in   front   of   us   as   a   subject   that   could   be   communicated   with   instead   of   a   group   of   cells   

study.      When   in   Chemistry   I   try   to   understand   the   electrons   that   are   involved   in   bonds   between   two   atoms,   to   try   and   combine   that   together   to   understand   the   structure   of   a   molecule.      In   math   I   break   down   the   whole   process   into   a   series   of   operations,   to   derive   a   final   answer   to   a   complex   problem   such   as   the   volume   of   an   irregular   object.   In   dance   I   focus   on   each   individual   move   by   making   sure   each   part   of   my   body   is   in   the   correct   position   to   form   a   dance.   Finally,   in   English   I   break   down   each   sentence   and   word   to   understand   each   thought   so   I   could   try   to   understand   the   author's   message.   Every   subject   focuses   on   the   break   down   of   a   study   into   separate   parts   so   that   it   can   be   better   understood.   Maybe   this   is   because   we   are   taught   to   think   this   way   by   the   structure   of   discipline   given   to   us   through   Panopticism,   or   maybe   we   cannot   help   but   think   this   way.   Maybe   this   idea   of   objectification   is   inevitable   because   we   cannot   physically   understand   something   that   is   so   complex.      Maybe,   objectifying   things   is   just   our   way   of   actually   understanding   the   world   around   us.      
