The concept from the Plague City and Leper Colony, combine together to create one idea about Panopticism. In the Plague city, people were put into different segments. The city is keeping everyone "in" but controlling and analyzing him or her. It was a required process and there were enforcers throughout. There were Syndics that made sure you did what you were supposed to do and it was strict. The Leper Colony however, was trying to keep people out to prevent the spreading of ideas. This is ironic to the sorority recruitment process. People that were involved in rushing played parts both in the Plague City and Leper Colony but during Recruitment.

In the Plague city, the people were individualized. The concept of being of being analyzed comes from the plague city in seeing who and what someone is and that they are taken as a unit rather than whom someone is inside. Michael Foucault's work of Panopticism even says "at the beginning of the lock up, the role of each of the inhabitants present in the town is laid down, one by one; this document bears the name, age sex of everyone" (Foucault 241). They were dividing people up, and even would call the people of the town inhabitants, which means that they were not treating them the correct way. They do not call them people or humans, more as if they were animals locked up in a cage. There was division between everything, however, it was not as intensifying as the two cities were, but do not get me wrong; recruitment was definitely one of the most intense chapter of my life so far. I was held in a unit and was not a certain person. I was separated not by name but by pi chi group number. I was cut into a category. It was more that I was an object rather than a human being during the first week. People involved would have to do everything that was told or that person would be removed from the process. I had to walk in high wedges across hills and stand in the hot sun without sound. I was not allowed to move at certain times. 

In the Leper County, people were marked and so there was exclusion. People were kept away so that they could not spread ideas with each other. No one could be in contact with other people and there was no transmission of ideas, thoughts, or anything that would come across someone remained with them. Over half of the process of Recruitment there was no talking to anyone besides the girls that were recruiting and the pi chis. No one was allowed to have any contact with the outside world or any of the people that were also rushing. The worst part about it, is that people were placed in something they called the holding cell. I was not allowed to go outside of the cell during the different house parties because they did not want me to give opinions or spread ideas about the different sororities. 

This allows me to think differently. I can make decisions based on what I want to think and don't need the opinion of others telling me what I should think or what I like and don't like, and I believe that idea is very crucial especially in the society we live in today. Everyone always does what others do and if you were marked and analyzed you are no longer doing what everyone else is doing, I agree that you are trapped in a way, but at least it is your own thoughts and actions, not everyone else's. I think this has affected me positively because I see how certain things happen and what it is like to live as an individual, be a person yourself, and not listen to what other people are convincing you to do, and be your own self with no outside influence. I really do not think there is much to change but if the world turned out how recruitment is, I think we would not enjoy ourselves. I think it would be nice for everyone to be original but if everyone was like that, than everyone would keep to himself or herself and we would have a lot less than we do now. 
