The usage of disciplinary system has been spread out our daily life. There are many examples of disciplinary systems we are dealing with such schools universities and even companies. Additionally, sometimes we could not notice that we are a part of disciplinary system. Indeed we have adapted with those systems. Schools are a good example to observe and look closely at disciplinary system. As students in the University of South Carolina, we have been dealing with these systems. By relating the university as an example of disciplinary organization to panopticon perspective, we can see similarities between them. Registration, attendance policy, and relationship between students and their teachers are disciplinary system. And when we say disciplinary system, it means a relationship and a way of organizing bodies. 

First of all, we have to get through a process called registration before being student in the university each term. In addition, the university can get a record of number of students in each term, and based on that it can make a plan of what is needed. So, the students are being identified by the university. Moreover, the students are required to give their personal information including address. When we are discussing the registration system, we can look back to the "Panopticism". Foucault says that all people, including the lepers were required to be registered on the government's records, so that they are being counted. In addition, the government has a record of each person that includes a background of that person and all the important information. Everyone was actually well known by the government based on the records that the government has. So, we can see registration system is the same as government registration system. 

Another thing we can notice from school as disciplinary institution is attendance policy. Attendance is required for some classes, and teachers check attendance in different ways such as calling names or memorizing faces. Missed students are recorded, and they have limit number of absences before they fail in such a class. Some students have excuses for their absences but it still counted absences, according to some teachers. Turing to "Panopticism", we can notice that it's just the same way how people are being checked and counted everyday by the syndics. The syndics go every morning to check each house and make sure that everyone is there. If not, they will have to record that and they will figure out what's going on. So, it is the same way as school system, the teachers are as the syndics and they check the students, who are the patients in the plague city, every day. 

 Finally, Students' records are visible by the university. It can access to student's transcripts to know his strengths and weaknesses. In addition, the university is looking forward to improve education day by day. By looking and observing students' needs the university can provide help in order to make the student work better and better. It also can access to students' skills, and make plans to improve them in future. When we are looking back to "Panopticsim" Foucault says: "the surveillance is based on a system of permanent registration: reports from syndics to the intendants, from the intendants to the magistrate..." (Foucault 241).  So, it is similar to what the university is doing for its students by planning new methods to improve student's performance. For instance, we have many tutoring centers in different classes at the University of South Carolina. The main goal of these centers is to help student to do better job in their classes. Consequently, they show increasing in their performance.

In conclusion, the usage of disciplinary system is in everywhere and people used to work according to them without noticing that there is even disciplinary organization. By looking closely, we found that in institutions such as schools have disciplinary systems including registration and student records as well as personal information. Those systems built in order to help develop and improve a performance of even achieve goals. So it is beneficial for people to adapt with disciplinary systems in their lives.
