The image on the page 46 comes from a magazine cover. This magazine is called "Weird Tales". The image is painted by artist, R. M. Mally. In this image, some light come from corner illuminate a dark place. The light reveals a man who get shackled in the darkness. He is a white man or Asian man because his skin color. His hair color cannot be determined because it is hid by the shadow. Some skeletons surround this man and stretch their hand toward the corner where the light come from. This man is totally naked in this image. He is very strong but these iron shackles limited his movements. They locked his hand, feet, and his waist. His face shows that he is full of despair, but his eyes does not. Even his eyes almost closed, he is still looking for the light, the hope. At the top of this painting, there is the magazine name, "Weird Tale". An article name and its evaluate write behind the man. It writes "The Spirit Fakers of Hermannstadt by Houdini, The most Miraculous True Story ever written". The date and the price of the magazine at the bottom of cover. Painting is the best way to make this image because photo is very hard to create an ideal environment like painting. Painting can build some unrealistic thing in the image, such as these no damaged skeletons and the strange shackle style. Another reason for using painting is that this image was painted in 1924. At that time, camera was not as good as modern camera. It needs more work and time than painting, so it would raise the cost for magazine publisher.

The resource showed that the image is a cover for scary story magazine. The image has to make readers have fear. For this reason, it created a creepy environment. It also needs to draw people attention and stimulate their interest, so the man appear in this image. This man should play an important role in the scary story. He maybe a man who provides clue or he is the main character. One of the scene will be this prison like place. The readers will be interested in how this man get prisoned in darkness and why he is caught by others. They want to know why this man is naked and the reason he get limited like this. The light and his strong body make readers think he is alive. The strong body give readers a idea that he is hard to be beat down. Readers will want to know whether he can or cannot escape from the prison. This image featuring the story,"The Rats in the Walls". This image not only has the advertise function, but also it deepen the impression which the story give. After the reader saw this image, they will try hard to find this man and this scene in the story. They will try to overcome their fear to read the story. When they find the scene in the last part of story, they will find that their fear cannot be stopped. The darkness in the image destroy their bravery and let them taste their fear. The skeletons is not as same as the image. The horrible description for the skeletons makes the reader feel how crazy the narrator's ancestors are. The creepy environment in the story force the reader to replace the image with more scary things. The strong man in the image is not alive anymore in the story. When the readers find the prison and read the horrible description which is about the dead body. The strong man will be replaced by a bloodcurdling corpse. His muscle and organism will become rats and other dirty things. The iron chain will look like some evil creature which come from hell. They are draining blood from this sad man. The shadow will become unknown threat or unknown monsters for the readers. Unknown things which cannot be predicted by readers will make impression on the readers' mind. Especially bloody environment will deepen this scary things and let readers remember that clearly. The horror is spread among readers' mind. 

This image did a great success on advertising and making impression. If the artist choose other scene, it cannot influence people like this. For example, the artist use the scene which the narrator was scared by the rats sound. After the readers read this part, they will feel no more interesting. Rats sound cannot make deep impression on people's mind, because this is a story not a movie. Reading cannot produce sound in the real world. The Reader can imagine but it will be different with the sound which the author want. Using the last scene to be the painting material is totally different. This scene has a lot of description for environment that reader can use to connect with the image. The last scene can be the best way to leave some surprise for readers. 

In this image, all the things have different meaning. The light in the image makes it easy to find the symbolization. It is hope for the man in darkness. He is looking for light meaning that he is looking for the hope and the way that can help him leave this evil place. It also means freedom for this man, because he is shackled here. This light is so small in the image. It means that the hope is very small for the man. He is hardly to reach his freedom. These skeletons are the people who failed in escaping from here. It means the dangerous and hardness on the way to freedom. They raised their hands toward the light, the hope, but they failed and turn into the losers, these skeletons. They symbol the despair on the way to freedom, because of their raising hand. The reason is that these people have hope before, and they try hard to find the way out. Although they faced the way to leave, they still become more despair after they got caught. They wanted to touch the freedom before they died but something ended their life. Shackle in the image is the obstacle which stop the man to go into light. It limited the movement of this man. One of the iron chain connected with shackle which is on his waist. This chain stretch like a line, and it looks like that is pulling this lamentable man back into shadow. The shadow symbolize the evil force which prisoned this man. Shadow surround these people and become a wall to divide them from the sunshine. People was pulled into the underworld by these darkness.

In conclusion, this image did an amazing job for the story. It attracts the reader come and give them dramatic feeling in the story. The meaning in the image also gives reader to think a lot. The symbolization which is implied is a good point for reader to consider and enjoy. 

R.M.Mally, Cover of the pulp magazine Weird Tale(March 1924, Vol.3, No.3) featuring "The Rats in the Walls" by H.P.Lovecraft. The Carolina Reader for English 101. Columbia. The Department of English, USC Columbia. 2014. Print.
