It is one of those stories that give readers lessons about how bittersweet someone's life can be. The story is filled with labels of greed, pride, and materialism. Guy de Maupassant had really done a great job in showing what being in need could do to a person making huge difference in the way of living between being in comfort and need. In The Necklace the author does a great job in making conversations live and full with emotions as if the reader is just at the corner of the room that the characters are in.

As the story begins, the author intends to show Mathilde's strong personality by telling what she always thought of by using her passive voice more often in the passage. As you reach the core of the story, the more you will understand the characteristics of Mme. Loisel and her picture starts to get clearer in the reader's mind so you could almost describe her as if you knew her personally. In fact, Guy de Maupassant did not miss out a single detail about the characters looks, her outgoing friendly, and the way she thinks. In fact, some moments during reading I felt as if was experiencing the same feelings as Mme. Loisel of happiness when she was charming the event and also her desperation when she thinks of where she could have been if she made other decision which she did not.

A modest jewel that she felt she is in need its possession to attend the ball to make her feel comfortable was life changing. "She suffered ceaselessly, feeling herself born for all the delicacies and all the luxuries." Mathilde always felt that she is not doing what she desires to do and as if she has not occupied her hunger to possess. She cared so much about her looks and what people will think about her when they see her in the ball, especially people of high class in where she lived. Being worried so much of what those people will think if they see her with no jewelry on her, but just a simple dress, had her feeling anxious and uncomfortable of what gossip may go around the event. The emotion drive of women made her feel unstoppable from getting what she desires or else, she would be shadowing from the outside world to feel safe. So she makes a move by with her husband's idea of borrowing a precious jewel from a friend. A jewel that may be her savior from her excessive greed, something that wealthier people have in abundance, whereas she only wishes to have a few. So then, she finally feeds her hunger by getting the jewel and being the center of attention in the ball stole every man's heart with the beauty that the jewel gave her hanging on her neck. For the whole night, she forgot all the sadness and grief in her life and felt lively and comfortable as if it is where she is meant to be, among the rich people. Amazed and self-obsessed by her-self she believed that this feeling could last forever and she will never be in need again in her life. Frankly, her being comfortable was always related with her getting what she believed needs. Mathilde didn't accept the fact that she's a middle class individual, she thought that she can get whatever she wanted just by pointing fingers which is nonsense. She never though that greediness doesn't have a cure and once she gets what she wants she will always demand more and more which is human nature.

Mme. Loisel is a great example of who a typical graceful woman should be as the author describes her when he makes statements about her elegance and ingenuity. She is the woman that no man could deny being obsessed by her breath taking charm. However, what life had to unfold for her was not pleasing as she suffered so much in her life that she did not make the best of maybe because of the man she married or it is just the way meant to be for her with no luck at all. The author pictured her community as a community of criticism ruled by the rich ad everything awesome was going around them. So the middle class and poor people were not appreciated or a concern around there. This expresses the struggle that she was living in trying to blend in a society that was all about the money that the rich had and appearances.

It is amazing the way in which Maupassant managed to describe the joy and desperation in Mathilde's life without being one sided. He always enriched hope in Mathilde's heart when she was in misery. The mixture of words in his sentences of desperation and sadness in the story encountered by the joy and delight are what keeps you reading the story until the end, because not any writer could do that indeed. In addition to that, the use of direct and indirect speech quotations were obviously noticed and played a major role in making the story alive with conversations that reflected the life of Mathilde was living in. 
