Should people follow the religion, or go for their rights? The Panopticon is like a prison except that there is no communication and interaction between the people. Moreover, every person is observed by a guardian to make sure that no rules are broken. Similarly in Oman people have to follow what the religion says. Besides, women in Oman must be observed by of her family member wherever she goes. The relationship between men and women at work, school, and universities is limited, and why couldn't the government interfere with this problem. 

 In Bentham's Panopticon the guardian sees everyone to make sure they don't contact with each other, or break the rules. In Oman this thing applies on women, every woman must be observed by her father, brothers, or husband if she is married, but women cant watch each other because religious people believe that women could fall in the same mistake. Women in Oman don't have full rights like men do, for example, woman cant go out with unless one of her brother, father, or mother is with her what makes them feel uncomfortable and stay most of the time home; however, men can go out by their selves. They want to make sure that she doesn't break the rules that the religion have for women. Like in the text " Panopticsim" Michel Foucault says " Each individual, in his place is securely confined to cell from which he is seen from the front by the supervisor," women are seen by one of their family member who's strict with her and doesn't let her free. 

Moreover, in the Panopticon people were forbidden to communicate with each, so everyone produces his own work and they don't want their ideas to interfere with other people's ideas. In Oman men are forbidden to communicate with women unless she is one of his family member because religious people believe that men and women may seduce each other, which is completely forbidden in Oman's major religion "Islam" .For example, girls and boys are separated in different schools because religious people believe that teenagers are in a very critical stage of age, so boys may hurt girls. Furthermore, in colleges and universities men and women can attend the same one, but the class is divided into two sections one for the men and one for the women to avoid any possible communication between them. Last, in work there would be limited contact between men and women because there is some work that can't do it individually. Thus, men and women in Oman are kind of experiencing the same as what people who were in the Panopticon. 

In addition, some of the people think that the community should not continue in this approach because it's beyond the human rights, and the government should change everything. Another people think that this is the right to treat people because religion never makes mistakes and what religion says is always right. Furthermore, the religion in Oman controls everything, and anyone is seen obeying the religion will get punished. For instance, If the police caught a man talking with a woman who is not from his family member or wife might throw him in prison. All in all, people who are Bentham's Panopticon are being controlled and can't do anything without permeation the same as   the religious people are controlling the government, so they can't change anything without their permeation.

In conclusion, men and women in Oman are experiencing the Bentham's Panopticon, but in a different way. They are being controlled by the religion and follow what it says. Women don't have fully rights like men do, the relationship between men and women is limited, and why couldn't the government interfere with this issue. Most of the people especially women hope that rules would change in Oman and have their fully rights. 
