In America we are constantly creating amazing technological advancements that can be used to better the current state of which we live in. Some of these advancements include the deletion of any unwanted body part, the instant color change of any and all hair, and even the immediate removal of unwanted acne, scarring or wrinkles. The most shocking thing of all is that all of these changes can be done with the few clicks of a button. Does this sound too good to be true? That's because it is. The use of image editing software in today's numerous media outlets has become as common as the air we breathe. It is almost impossible to stumble upon an image in today's media that has not been altered in some shape or form by Photoshop. Although the pictures may appear to be pleasing to the eye, they are creating a much darker and dangerous feeling within hundreds of thousands of the same viewers every year; the majority of them remaining under the label of youth by America's standards. These feelings include depression and anxiety and often lead to self-mutilation and hatred towards one's self. The use of Photoshop in today's media outlets is out of control and self-damaging to today's youth both physically and mentally.

By definition, the media is using the image editing software exactly as it is intended to be used. Meredith Jones, a seasoned Photoshop expert, breaks down the software's definition in its most simple form, "Adobe's Photoshop is computer software used to edit, manipulate and create images. It has been through eleven versions over the last twenty years, is available in 25 languages and its tools are now applied to most still images in mass media," (Jones). This is extremely relevant to this issue because Photoshop's readily availability makes it accessible to all skill-sets. Both amateurs and professionals are taking a photograph or image that they have captured, and then proceeding to change it in order to make it reach a certain quality or level of perfection that is acceptable to them. Michael Graupmann has been employed by the software editing company for numerous years and expressed his feelings on the subject firmly "Perhaps it is time for a refresher course for the media and Americans of what Photoshop was created for originally: bringing a subject more into focus, not creating works of fiction" (Graupmann). Graupmann's comment reveals the most basic form of this issue. The editors and professionals using this program are doing just that, shopping around for the perfect photo. The program itself is like a magical grocery store to them, where every food and beverage can be personalized to meet their every dietary and other need. The removal of acne, lengthening of legs, and the whitening of teeth can all be purchased here at this magical store, and it is here that they will stop shopping for their perfect photo because they have now created it. Beauty Redefined is a self-help blog and information based website that focuses primarily on the long term effects that this editing is causing, "While the vast majority of images of women are being digitally altered, so are our perceptions of normal, healthy, beautiful and attainable (Beauty Redefined). This concept is extremely dangerous once it has been further examined because it begins to access the ugly reality that not everything in our world is as it seems. Although some people may have issues with this troublesome truth, it is in fact a reality and one that must be quickly realized by all in this nation in order to cease the growing epidemic of youth that has been exposed to the layers of lies and deceit that is the media in our society.

The most common media outlet that people are able to identify and are aware of the use of Photoshop are within the pages of a magazine. Most notable of this category is none other than the label of fashion magazines. Camira Powell, a noted journalist and blogger observed many studies in reference to this topic and shared her findings stating, "A study found that 3 minutes at looking at a fashion magazine caused over 70% of women to feel guilty, depressed and shameful." (Powell). Kimberly Zapata, a journalist for the Examiner, also adds to this information stating, "It can also be noted that the average women sees between 400 to 600 advertisements per day. (Zapata). Both of these statistics have negative connotations and clearly point to a common feeling of depression and irritation among women in regards to their self-portrayal resulting from the pages of a publication. A close examination done by experts at the MediaSmarts headquarters was then reported by a Body Image Focused blog, also revealed that, "A single issue of Vogue was found to contain 144 manipulated images, including the cover" (Body Image). This large number further proves the amount of exposure that a young person is likely to have with these enhanced images.

It is no secret that access to these images is extremely easy. Magazines can be found lining the local grocery store isle, campus bookstore, and are even regularly stocked and updated in both high school and middle school libraries around the country. Even a quick trip to the doctor's office or dentist will expose the patient to a dozen or so photoshopped images before they even exit the waiting room. However, it is the youth in America that are most exposed to these images. The MediaSmarts team also calculated many statistics in reference to this topic with Body Image stating on their blog, "The biggest purchaser of magazines in this country is the female demographic, ranging from ages 8-20 years old" (Body Image). This is a huge issue because these magazines are not only promoting a certain interest or field of work, but a lifestyle as well. Subconsciously, the readers of these magazines begin to understand that in order to wear the clothes they are observing, visit the places they are seeing and live the life that is being presented so beautifully before them, then they must also look the way that all of the people in the magazine do as well. The issue resides in the fact that while an outfit and hair color are easily purchased or achieved, a slimmer figure, thigh gap, or longer arms are not, and may never be in many cases. This is where the deception, depression and anger begin to surface. In America, many citizens are extremely impatient. They thrive off of quick service and fast paced atmospheres to keep them happy and moving forward. When one realizes that this is not the case, they may become upset and agitated. Much like a toddler being told no, many Americans do not take rejection well. While the magazines are not physically telling the readers that they are unfortunate looking in any way, shape or form, the use of Photoshop within their pages is still delivering a silent but deadly message. Kiara Gandhi, a psychologist that focuses in Women Studies explains that, "In 2012, there were 130,502 plastic surgery procedures done for teenagers under the age of 18 in the USA. The reason for this incredible number of teenagers trying to change the way they look is because they are trying to attain the perfect look" (Gandhi). This number is incredibly high when compared to the relatively low age of the patients. The desire and pressure to live up to the standards that are being presented before today's youth are beginning to result in both drastic and dangerous results. Many celebrities have noticed the flaws and issues within the photo shopping media mayhem, and some have even addressed it or opposed it altogether. Vivian Diller, a noted psychologist, media expert and marketing consultant noted a very famous example in her article, stating "Brad Pitt requested that there be no retouching on his W magazine cover, personally selecting Chuck Close to shoot it, a photographer known for his extremely detailed portraits that expose skin flaws" (Diller). This was a bold decision that led to much speculation amongst the media world and the amount of editing that was truly taking place behind closed doors.

However, not all magazines refuse to address the issue or neglect to change their ways. Seventeen Magazine, one of the leading publications within the teenage female demographic, addressed the deception and hurt that many of their readers were feeling resulting from their use of Photoshop after a 14 year old reader started an ambitious campaign in which she demanded the editing stop. Camira Powell noted the editor's bold response on her blog stating, "Seventeen's editor, Ann Shoket, crafted an 8-point plan that promised that Seventeen will "never change girls' body or face shape," "feature real girls and models who are healthy," and "celebrate every kind of beauty" (Powell). It is influential persons such as Brad and Ann that must continue to use their raised platform for decisions such as these in order to alert the public of this present day issue. I do believe that Photoshop can be both a helpful and positive tool when it comes to certain magazine publications. The removal of a flyaway hair during a photo shoot or the smoothing of a pesky zit that refused to stay hidden is understandable. However, there is a huge difference between fixing minor imperfections and completely altering a person's image. Sadly this differentiation cannot easily be made or deciphered by the youth in today's society because they are not given both images to examine and note the differences, but only one image; the image of perfection.

Although magazines are perhaps the most recognizable platform in relation to abusing the use of Photoshop, it is important to note that they are far from the only media outlet in which it occurs. Perhaps one of the most dangerous effects of Photoshop is the issue that many times one is unable to tell that any editing was done at all. After all, the software costs a pretty penny for a reason. Its ability to perfect any photo is pristine. One of the most impressive facts about Photoshop is its ability to transfer its effortless magic to not only still images but live ones as well. Photoshop is readily used in the television circuit as well, something that many people are not aware of. Many digital editors have mastered the art of Photoshop and transferred it to the big screen for similar results to that of the media; creating the images of perfect people in the form of flawless skin, breathtaking features, and sparkling teeth. Although many people credit these techniques to makeup artists or lighting, it is actually many times due to the use of Photoshop within the film making process as well. Today's youth falls victim to this exposure yet again because they are among the most prevalent to participate in television viewing and movie attendance in the nation. A monthly newsletter published by the Teen Health and the Media site stated that "In a recent study performed on fifth graders, 10 year old girls and boys told researchers they were dissatisfied with their own bodies after watching a music video by Britney Spears or a clip from the TV show "Friends" (Teen Health and the Media). This is only further exposure to fake people and the development of unrealistic expectations. It is important to note that I do not believe all Photoshop is negative and evil. After all, filling Hogwarts with beautiful and enchanting magic that is realistic to the viewer is crucial to the overall success of the movie. However, there is no need to make an actress who is 30 years old and 150 pounds appear to be 20 years old and 110 pounds. While some may argue that this is necessary in the realm of movies due to the character, I would suggest that the director of said film should strongly consider casting an actress or actor that better fits their desired qualifications instead of digitally enhancing or altering the cast to look completely unrecognizable.

The third and perhaps most damaging place that Photoshop can be found is also many times forgotten or unaddressed by many. Yet, it is by far the outlet that receives the most attention and is exposed most frequently to the youth demographic. As we continue to advance in the technological world, we have gained access to almost every application or software through the use of our mobile devices. This means that Photoshop is not only available to those with detailed desktops or laptops, but also to any person with a smart phone. Social media plays a huge role in one's access to Photoshop, with the social networking site Instagram playing lead host to the deceit. Jenna Herman specializes in the use of media in today's market on her blog, stating that "As of 2014, 68% of Instagram users range between the age demographic of 10 to 21 years old" (Herman). This is a huge demographic and allows very little aging to occur before one is exposed to the dangers of this media platform. Photoshop on mobile devices is rare in the fact that it comes in many forms. For those who are unable to spend a ton of money on the application, creators have come up with very similar substitute apps that can be downloaded for free and include many of the same options. From the smoothing tool to the whitening tool, the possibilities are endless. While the idea of a social media site that revolves strictly around the posting of images may appear harmless, in actuality it is the most dangerous and frequently accessed form of Photoshop and almost no one realizes it. In an age where a person's entire mood can depend on how many "likes" their photo has received, sites like this are purely self-destructive ticking time bombs. The posting of these altered images accompanied with tons of "likes" often leads viewers to feel depressed and upset about their own account, and because this account is focused entirely on images that are posted, they have nothing else to examine other than their own images. My current generation is also the age of the "selfie," a slang term for taking a picture of one self and then posting it online. It is actions like these that can prove to be most destructive. Today's youth is unable to differentiate between real and fake when it comes to these photos, often times forgetting that the girl they sit next to in chemistry class has just as much exposure and opportunity to download and use photo editing software to her advantage as any editor or seasoned pro. This is where the most crucial build up and development of anxiety, depression and anger come from in today's youth as they begin to feel deceived and frustrated. Jenna Herman also noted the after effect that Instagram is causing throughout the modern youth, stating that "Over 80% of teenagers said that they often feel inferior or less attractive compared to other images they have seen at least once a day on the site."(Herman). This rate is extremely high and disturbing coupled with the fact that this app is the most used application every single day in America, with the youth being the biggest supporters and users. Businesses have also found a way to stay tech savvy in this modern day as well by creating accounts and urging people to follow them. These accounts are then used as a form of mobile advertisements as they will then post their flawless campaign promotions all over your newsfeed. While the use of filters was added to the app to give the pictures a cool effect, Photoshop and its companions have completely taken the idea to a new level with settings adjusting the hue, saturation and brightness among some of the selections on the app. Photoshop and the digital enhancement of images have taken an outlet that was designed with the idea of an "active photo album" in mind, and transformed it into a constantly updated competition between its users to determine who's picture is the most flawless and popular overall.

Eliminating the use of Photoshop is neither necessary nor practical. The software itself is an amazing source that has tons of incredible options. When used correctly, it can produce wonderful masterpieces and jaw dropping creations. Vivian Diller pointed out a huge change to the way that our society views the use of software like this stating, "Photoshopping and airbrushing, many believe, are now an inherent part of the beauty industry, as are makeup, lighting and styling" (Diller). This is a very modern view that has led to many artists arguing that banning the use of Photoshop would be a form of limiting one's artistic freedom. I can understand this argument, and therefore I do not support the elimination of the software, but precisely the opposite. I believe that since the growing miss-use of Photoshop in our modern day and age is sadly here to stay, instead of attempting to mask the use we should publicize it. I believe that a law should be passed demanding the notification of use of Photoshop on the ad or image any time it is used or printed, meaning the disclaimer would appear somewhere on the ad itself. This would make a huge difference in the way in which the youth not only responds to the images in the media, but also how they perceive them, as well as themselves, going forward. In a letter published by the Arizona Republic, representative of the Arizona House, Katie Hobbs, defended her anti-Photoshop bill, explaining: "Girls see an average of 400 images a day of what it means to be beautiful in our culture. Many of these images are unattainable because they are not real" (Extensive Use). I think this needs to become a priority because although it may appear to simply be administering a small alteration to a photo, in actuality it will result in making a huge alteration to thousands of depressed and struggling youths.

Our world is an amazing place. It is changing every second, each advancement or invention a new level of spectacular and even more exciting than the one before it. With such rapidly moving changes, it's hard to keep up. Our generation is the first that has grown up with the advancement of some of the greatest technology so far, from cell phones to Facebook to laptops, we truly have seen a wide range of technology in a small amount of time. While these advancements continue to take place, one must remember that out of all of these inventions, perfection has not been one that any individual has been able to master yet. If we are all able to understand this, then why are hundreds of thousands of America's youth struggling with body image issues and depression resulting directly from the media? It may seem like common sense, but when millions of flawless photos are presented to you every day on multiple platforms, the line between reality and fake becomes very blurry. Demanding the notification of the use of Photoshop is the solution to turning this currently thin line into a permanent path. A path that will not only pave the way for all of the youth that have been subjected and suffered from the exposure to these faulty images, but will also serve as a gentle reminder to future generations that there finally is some truth in advertising.
