From the colonization period, America had a skewed view on how society should look like, who should be in charge, and who could have power. The idea of white supremacy started way back when we did not have a "free country for all", and remained until present day. From the civil war, to the civil rights movement in the 60's to now, racism in society was fought and sometimes prevailed among our people. The idea of white supremacy isn't lost even in today's society. We can  take a look at our southern states and see that many still believe in the idea that white Americans are superior to any and all other races. African Americans are still treated poorly and stereotyped in society even to this day. This article talks about the extent of racism in today's society through a very popular book series The Hunger Games, which now is becoming a very popular movie series based on the books. Looking at our progress through history in this issue of racism and white supremacy, leads us to believe that indeed it is not over. Our young generation, due to the lack of moral education and media influences is regressing towards this particular issue. This article portrays the indignation of one man upon reading some racist comments in the internet and his need to make a change. Racism in this essay portrays the context in which the text contributes to the holistic idea of rhetoric argumentation. Also, in the text, the audience consists of the population as a whole illustrating a wide range of targeted individuals to which this article appeals to. 

The context in this article consists of a controversy over the race of two of the characters in the Hunger Games, Rue and Thresh. Fans who read the book portrayed Rue as an innocent "white girl", and in the movie she turned out to be "black". As a Hunger Games fan myself, Collins explicitly describes Rue and Thresh as African Americans in the book. To fans all over the country the realization that Rue and Thresh were indeed African Americans through the movie sent outrage on Twitter, a social media website. Adam, also a Hunger Games fan stumbled upon fan made blogs with outrageous content. Anonymous blogs were posted directed at the ethnicity of both Rue and Thresh stating their disappointment. Fans outraged in the fact that both characters were black. Adam upon witnessing such open display of hatred decided to enlighten the population by reposting these blogs. He further decides to explore other outlets of media such as Twitter to widen his research. Searching for hashtags such as "#hungergames" he finds a whole different level of racism. Fans on Twitter unlike those on the blogs have no shame. While the blogs were anonymous, the Tweets were not. Adam saw the true hatred and racism in society through these Tweets. He then decided to repost the Tweets in hope to raise awareness against modern day racism in the world. Instagram becomes his first posting outlet. Because Instagram does not allow one to repost pictures very easily, Adam then turns to Tumblr. Unlike Instagram, Tumblr functions like twitter, allowing people to repost blogs onto their own personal blogs/pages. Adam then starts a series of blogs called "The Hunger Games Tweets", where he reposts all of the Tweets he encountered portraying the high levels of racist comments. A few weeks before the movie came out, his page started receiving significant views, "likes", and often concerned replies from caring members of society outraged like him about such comments. When the movie came out, his page received record viewings according to Tumblr history. Adam's blog indeed enlightened society. His blog not only streamed on the internet, but also on television talk shows and news reports. His blog was not intended to stay confined in a computer screen, but was made to go out into every viewer's heart and change a one minded society into an open minded one. The context in the text illustrates the realization of racism in today's society, and posits the understanding of ignorance and indifference in the young generation in our population. This article suggests a much bigger picture than just protesting racism in today's society. This article shows where we as a society stand, and where we have been in the past. Before the internet, or any kind of media, awareness to certain topics like racism and equality was very difficult. There was no way for anyone to "know" what was really going on. It was only in the 60's and 70's when televised programing became prominent that the issue on civil rights and equality really started to go forward. From the many lives lost in the civil rights movement and our country's struggle to equality, to be where we are now in society is a great achievement. Although we have come a long way from the 60's and 70's struggles, displays of racism like the ones presented in this article sets our country back from becoming an even better place. The bigger picture in this article represents the fact that racism even after all its history, is prominent in society, and media plays a big part in both promoting and raising awareness about it. 

Adam's Tumblr blogs enlightened the feelings of shame and guilt in some of the fans who posted racist comments on twitter, and opened the eyes of society on how we as a nation carry ourselves and what we believe in. To most people a "hero" in our story books illustrates a blond haired, blue eyed, white American. An innocent child posits a blond haired, blue eyed, white American. Where does the other ethnicities come in play in such a one minded society? African Americans in relation to all the other ethnicities are targeted the most because of their prominent physical differences. Stereotypes and plain ignorance blinds our society to the point where teens and young adults (the future of our society) are posting outrageous racist comments on the internet about their disappointment that "sweet and innocent little Rue" is indeed black. Adam tries to show this to our society through his posts and blogs which reveals to the public just how far hatred can go. His blogs and posts incorporate media sharing, political views, and heated statements, thus making the sharing of the blogs achieve such high numbers. Society enjoys conflicts and entertainment, therefore mass media when combined with crude racial statements creates a highly heated argument within society. Much like in the Hunger Games, human beings thirst for entertainment. There is something about us, humans, which just can't stay away from what we consider entertainment. In the Hunger Games for the people of the Capitol, entertainment meant the killing of the kids from the districts through the games televised to the nation. For us, entertainment means the latest gossip, the show with the most conflict and "drama" attached. We like conflict, we as humans like to disagree and create conflict. That for some reason generates entertainment in our society, and Adam understanding that knew that he would get his point across by combining such mass media sharing to such a heavy topic. 

The targeted audience consists of Hunger Games fans worldwide as well as anti-racism activists. This article appeals to all Hunger Games fans because it portrays issues related to the book series, thus giving them something to talk about. When writing this article the author intended to target a general public with the same moral views in hopes to achieve his purpose of spreading awareness about racism. As a subjective text, this article portrays the interpretation of articles and blogs perceived by the author. With the sole purpose to expose such display of hatred in society, this article targeted a wide audience. Not only the people who posted the comments online but also others with higher morals were targeted as audience in this article.
