Stem cell research has been a topic of discussion for the past few decades. It has been a prevalent matter of political debate and has proven itself to be controversial in several aspects. Stem cells are cells that can be used to heal diseases that are normally extremely difficult to cure. In 2001, President George W. Bush made it a law to limit the federal spending on stem cell research to a minimum. He vetoed two potential laws to lift his ban throughout his eight-year term. Although he was for the most part against stem cell research, during his time in office, Bush allowed research on sixty lines of stem cell facilities. Although, at the time that wasn't much, it still proved its value by giving slow, but effective studies for the public. In 2009, President Obama signed a law to lift Bush's ban on stem cell research (Obama Overturns). This order allowed for the National Institute of Health to receive significantly higher amounts of funding which allowed them perform to research on stem cells. This order also created better independence for other science policies and programs. Stem cell research procedures should be allowed in the medical field because it can be used to cure obscure illnesses and open up new doors for treatments.

The issue of stem cells is a sensitive one. Ever since they became a relevant issue in today's world, it seems people cannot stop wondering of the future of this research. There are groups of people who are all for stem cell research because they see a potential to change the world for the better. There are also people who see it as an unethical waste of money that would potentially corrupt our society. Values of the individual are usually key factors to determine which side of the spectrum someone is on in this topic. Both sides bring up valid points and have supporters with strong arguments and beliefs to form debates. 
Supporters of stem cell research are optimistic with the future in these studies. A common goal of this research is to cure certain illnesses that prove to be an obstacle in today's medical world. For example, cancer is a prime hurdle when it comes to treatment. Yes, it is possible to treat, but survival rates for cancer are amongst the lowest depending on the form; not to mention medical bills for treatment are extremely expensive. Drug prices alone for cancer average at over one hundred thousand dollars annually per patient (Levy). Stem cells are cells that can mimic other cells and grow to a certain part of the body to resolve a problem; which is why they are under such high priority to researchers to cure such illnesses like cancer.

However, there are people who strongly oppose stem cell research. Stem cell research is a touchy subject because it challenges many aspects of issues relevant to the everyday lives of U.S. citizens. To begin, there is the question of ethics. Is it ethical to perform these practices in today's world? This is one of the main questions regarding this topic because in some cases, stem cell research involves the use of fetuses.

Branching off the subject of morality is the ethics of stem cell research. Many believe these studies are essentially provoking the act of god by inhibiting nature to do its job. People who fear stem cells for this reason feel this way due to the lack if natural processes that play into it. This is a common mindset for people who believe stem cell research should end because of the destruction of embryos.

At 2 weeks of age, twenty to thirty cells are extracted from an fetus and put into a petri dish. This process kills off the fetus, leaving it to be discarded later (Hollowell). A common supporter of anti-stem cell research for this particular reason is the prolife/anti-abortion group. This group of people defines abortion as the murder of a human life. Similarly, they hold this belief to the use of embryos and fetuses in stem cell research (The Cases).

Religious leaders and other pro-life advocates believe that stem cell research falls under the same category as abortion and the moral issues that come along with it are the same.  This opposition group believes that abortion is the same thing as deriving stem cells from fetus because they both involve the death of a fetus. For the Catholic Church and many other Christian groups, life begins at conception, making the research equivalent to murder because it results in the destruction of human embryos. According to a 2007 national poll by the Pew Forum on Religion & Public Life and the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press, 51% people deemed it was more important for stem cell research to continue at the cost of these embryos. 35% said research should end because of the death of embryos (Vestal). I believe that abortion and embryonic stem cell research fall under entirely different categories because only a few hundred fetuses are discarded yearly for stem cell research as opposed to millions yearly for abortion.

The strengths of stem cell research highly outweigh the losses. With the loss of a single fetus, these cells are created and hold the potential to save countless lives of those in need. Currently, scientists are still developing these cells to be used in humans but it is clear that extraordinary progress has been made throughout the past few decades to help treat potentially fatal illnesses. In the past, diabetes proved itself to be a killer by dropping an individual's insulin levels dangerously low. Today, people can be functional and healthy by monitoring their insulin levels with special technological handicaps. Although this is a feasible measure to coping with such a disease, there is still room for it to actually be cured.

Scientists in California have successfully performed this procedure on mice by reversing the damage done to the cells in the pancreas required to produce insulin. Scientists collected skin cells for this procedure called fibroblasts. By treating these skin cells with a mixture of other molecules, these cells are reprogrammed to fight diabetes when administered correctly (Bosely). According to Sarah Bosley, health editor of the Guardian, tests have already been conducted for the treatment of diabetes.

The current records of tests were conducted by altering the DNA of mice to have problems in their pancreas that inhibited the formation of insulin; mimicking type one-diabetes. These mice were then given the stem cells and there appeared to be a gradual increase in insulin produced in their pancreases. The cells were then removed and the mice once again displayed signs of diabetes; indicating a direct correlation between the cell and production of insulin (Bosely). After a certain number of weeks after scientists transplanted these cells, more began to develop within the mice's pancreases, curing them. This technology seems to be working, but when it comes to the application on human's there are more complications; which is why scientists are still working on ways to advance these cells to be used in the medical field.

According to Ed Yong, an author for National Geographic, in 2011, it was learned that stem cells could actually be derived from natural cells found in one's own body. Researchers found that after removing cells from an individual's breast, some of them would act differently. These different cells were cells from the individual that had transformed into stem cells. These naturally occurring stem cells can be used the same way as embryonic stem cells. Cells like this can even be used to create organs for transplants (Yong). This is a breakthrough in itself because it is clear that a fetus does not have to die in order to get stem cells. Diseases that can be treated by these cells include Parkinson's, heart attacks, and genetic defects. This changes the game for stem cell research ethically because there is really no harm done by this process (Murnaghan).

When someone has a heart attack, his/her heart becomes damaged and scar tissue is formed. With stem cells, the scar tissue can be reversed making the heart healthy once again. Similarly, Parkinson's disease is a condition where brain cells destruct causing muscle spasms and eventually it leads to death. Stem cells can be used to restore the dying brain cells, which can actually result in a full recovery. Even more promising, is the potential to address genetic defects that are present from birth by restoring function and health with the introduction of normal healthy cells that do not have these defects. An example of a genetic disease that can be treated by this procedure is Down's syndrome. (Murnaghan).

Recently, there has been a breakthrough in stem cell research that has revolutionized the study entirely. Scientists discovered that if they take these cells and put them in a slightly acidic environment, they transform and become significantly more powerful. These cells can morph into just about any necessary cell on any part of the body. They can even be used to form fetuses that can be used to obtain more cells (Landau). This is a breakthrough in and of itself because originally, stem cells were acquired through live organisms such as animal, other humans, and unborn fetuses, but now they can be created artificially. They have been tested on rats and have proven to be successful. These cells are created artificially using Nano-carbon tubes to emulate the environment of an organism to help them develop in a naturally synthetic way (McName). These cells have been given the name STAP cells and are the most talked about theme in the latest news in stem cell research. They are still not yet ready to be used on humans yet but scientists are working on potentially life changing modifications to these cells.

A story of a successful stem cell procedure is one that involves the "Skin Gun". Matt Euro is a man who received second-degree burn from a fire that burned off a large portion of the skin on his upper back. Usually in these cases, the victim/patient must wait a few weeks for the skin to heal in order to begin treatment. A problem with this process is that the burnt skin is prone to infection in the duration of healing. By removing stem cells from Matt's healthy skin, doctors were able to make use of them through what is called a "Skin Gun". This tool is an electrical spray gun that sprays a film of these cells just as a spray-paint gun. 4 hours after Matt was given the treatment, his skin had regenerated 100% just as if he was never burned in the first place (Skin Gun).
Matt's situation is a prime example as to why stem cells should be used in the medical field for treatment. His story was one of success with no bad after effects. This is a major revolution because now there are means to apply stem cells to patients, which are actually approved for human use. A key factor to this treatment is that the stem cells weren't derived from a 2-week-old fetus; they were acquired from the patient's own skin. This procedure is more favorable because the cells come from the patient, leaving less room for error by easing the stem cell removal process. This proves that stem cells don't have to be solely obtained through a fetus, which in my opinion makes the practice more ethical.

Stem cells also possess value in the pharmaceutical field. New medicines can now be tested on stem cells to gauge their safety before testing on animals and humans. For example, it is possible for a cancer tumor to be created and have them tested with these medicines, which requires no volunteering by a current patient. How this works is that a tumor is created in an arbitrary location by itself (not on an individual). Different medicines are then tested on the tumor and the results are recorded afterword (Murnaghan). Virtually any form of human/ animal tissue can be generated to perform testing.

I believe that the continuation of stem cell research is a good thing and that no harm can come from research alone. Yes, there are moral and ethical concerns regarding the studies but I believe in the long run it will broaden our knowledge in this field of biological science and if done correctly, help treat the sick on our planet. I believe there is a future in stem cell technology. If we can successfully facilitate the production and use of stem cells, the medical industry itself will revolutionize. The cost of surgeries for extremely fatal diseases will be a fraction of what they are now and will be simpler to undergo. For my next two papers I will be responding to this subject by showing why I believe stem cell research is good. I will do this by providing information from legitimate sources that explain the future benefits of this research while providing my own take on why I think it will be useful.
