How often do you hear of a male babysitter? Why is it assumed that a nurse is a female? These are often times questions that get overlooked because our society has created stereotypes and ideas that some jobs are more suitable for a particular gender. If we were to look at the stereotypical characteristics of each gender, like females being organized and males being strong, I think this could be a justified assumption. However, I do not believe that this makes either gender less capable than the other. As a student of a career field made up of more than 90% females, I see a real need for the workplace to more evenly represent both men and women. I would love to see the medical field move in a direction where jobs are not viewed as gender dominated jobs but rather an incorporation of different races, ages, genders, nationalities, and more. Historically, different ethnicities and women are known for being affected by discrimination. The Civil Rights Act brought about new hope for these groups of people however, it did not stop there. This paper will address the issue that gender segregation still exists in the workplace and how it is affecting many different career fields.

Like most issues in our society, there are two main perspectives to gender segregation in the workplace. The first perspective would be that it should not matter, and that we are able to function just fine with how it is. The second perspective is that the segregation that exists in some areas of the workplace needs to be addressed. Although both of these could be considered the extremes of this issue I think it is important to find a balance and a better understanding of what is causing the segregation to exist. I would like to think that it is possible to feel welcomed into any career field as well as love your job. Obviously, I do not think that the solution is to push people into a job that may just not be for them, but I do think we should be challenging each other to pursue what interests us rather than conform to the stereotypes of our society.

When looking at the first perspective, that gender segregation exists but it should not matter and is not causing any problems, it is reasonable to assume there is legitimacy to this assumption. Different careers require different characteristics and talents. For instance, a construction worker is generally someone who is strong, and a preschool teacher usually enjoys playing with children. Although each of these fields is dominated by one gender neither of these characteristics indicates a particular gender as being a better fit for the job. In general, men and women exhibit characteristics and tendencies specific to their gender. Men are thought to be physically stronger but aggressive, while women are thought to be more loving yet moody. It's safe to say each gender has its own strengths and weaknesses. Where we fall short is when these generalizations create limitations.

The article "The workplace should be segregated. Maybe", from Penelope Trunk Blog, addresses the ideas that we need to realize certain jobs are more appropriate for men, and others for women. (Penelope Trunk Blog, 2011) So, do I "belong" in the nursing field because I am a women, or that my brother "belongs" in the engineering field for the sole reason that he is male. Why is it easier to conform to what as been deemed "normal" rather than encourage expansion of interests? I think it is challenging for our generation to continue stepping out of these comfort zones into a world where we are not compared by gender but rather as individuals.

The second perspective, gender segregation in the workplace needing to be addressed as a problem, seems like a necessary step that would greatly benefit many career fields. Just like traits that generally are characterized with females can be attributed to female dominated careers, I also believe that those same characteristics are what is lacking in male dominated fields, but greatly needed. For example, less than 35% of physicians and surgeons are women.I believe that if we had more women who were physicians and surgeons, the field would greatly benefit from having the loving and personable characteristic traits that females generally portray in addition to the wonderful traits that the male doctors have already proven make them successful in this field. As genders we have many different strengths and weaknesses, there are so many career fields that could benefit from having a full representation of strengths and talents rather than those of only one gender.  As individuals we have so much to bring to the table, yet we are constantly being influenced by the limitations that exist in society. Our commonplaces often times cause these well known ideas to restrict us from having open minds. The communities in which we are a part of and involved in can skew our perception greatly. There is no doubt that this is also the case as we pursue careers.

According to Kate Palmer, a writer for YouGov international research firm, says the number of women in the workforce is steadily catching up to that of men (Palmer 2012). She talks about how this will give more women economic independence and professionalism. I think these are benefits that are worth noting as steps in the right direction. Based on her article we can see that creating an equal playing field where men and women can treat each other in a way where neither is superior, and professionalism is of utmost importance will allow the workplace to change for the better. Palmer also believes that women gaining economic independence has many benefits. Economic independence can produce more self-confidence, and for those that are married or dating, a healthier relationship. We must see these benefits as a motivation to encourage young people, both male and female, to pursue a higher education to then provide them with a successful career in the future.

This topic has great relevance to my life right now, which has created my passion for this topic. Ian Hulatt, a mental health nurse, and writer for the Nursing Times, says "I think public perception is still that [nursing] is a female occupation, which sometimes makes it hard for blokes to say: 'I'm going into nursing.' In some ways I think the public is still unsure what it wants from nurses  --  half still think of a nurse as the subject of an erotic fantasy and the other half want to see someone with a stethoscope around their neck" (Nursing Times, 2008). I see so many of my friends feed off of the opinions of those around them for insight of their career path and what they should major in. Although this may be an effective method for some people, I don't think this is productive in the long run. Unfortunately, we live in a world where input from others is greatly valued. Rather than seeking advice from adults to consider all of our options, we frequently look to our peers for approval. This aspect of gender segregation in the workplace is sometimes overlooked, but I believe it is important to understand what is influencing us to pursue a variety of fields and how stereotypes play into that.

Currently, gender segregation in the workplace remains an issue. In my nursing class this semester we specifically addressed this problem. My professor used to be a nurse in the OR. Whenever a male doctor was being rude, inconsiderate, or a jerk they would have what is called a "code pink". This would alert others in the area to come and signal to the doctor that they were not going to tolerate his attitude towards their employees. Although this seemed extremely disappointing that a code like this would have to exist in the first place, it did not surprise me at all. I have shadowed in several areas of the medical field over the past few years and the stereotype that male doctors act stuck-up, superior, and intolerant could not have been closer to what I experienced. Especially as a student observing I quickly realized they did not like me there and it was obvious that they were the most important person in the room. The medical field is not the only environment where this problem exists. I think the assumption is that this is only an issue for women. However, there are several career fields which are made up of mostly women, and for a male to enter that career field could be just as intimidating and difficult at times. Women tend to be more judgmental and are known for being "gossipers". To be a guy surrounded by that in the workplace can be overwhelming and a problem if not controlled.

The European Agency for Safety and Health at Work identifies two types of gender segregation that exists in the workplace. "Vertical segregation is where opportunities for career progression within a company or sector for a particular gender are narrowed" and "Horizontal segregation is where the workforce of a specific industry or sector is mostly made up of one particular gender." (OSHA) Horizontal segregation has been the emphasis of my paper and I do not believe that vertical segregation can be resolved until we work towards fixing horizontal segregation. How can we increase the presence of women as authority figures in a field where women barely exist? According to the Women's National Political Caucus, approximately 20% of the politicians in the United States are female ("Statistics"). This small number will dictate the influence that women will have in politics, and it reveals part of the reason why we have never had a female president in the United States. We cannot expect the chances of a woman being elected as president to be high if their presence in politics is not high as well.

We have a long way to go before we see equal representation of men and women in the workplace. In the mean time though, I think that the best solution would be encouragement for young people to fully understand their strengths, talents, and interests as it relates to their education, and ultimately a career. It is necessary for those pursuing jobs to find reassurance from those around them, and within our communities we can do a better job of having a full knowledge of careers rather than make assumptions based on our "commonplaces". Just as the stereotypes that can be associated with race, age, etc. will never completely go away, neither will the stereotypes that are associated with different careers. I hope that we can continue to grow as a society to better understand the true meanings and responsibilities of a job rather than the assumptions that are tied to it.

In papers 2 and 3 I plan to address the impact gender segregation might be having on people in our class and the benefits of overcoming it. I think my paper will be most effective if I present it in a way that can be relatable and easy to connect to. Because I am a part of a career field that is affected by this, I would like to use paper 2 to introduce my argument that my field is at a great loss from having such a small proportion of males. I plan to use the sources from my research to support my claim that men have a lot to offer to the nursing field and a push for more men in the nursing field would benefit nurses, doctors, and patients.
