The first source that I am using comes from The National Women's Law Center. This source talks about the States that ban insurance coverage of abortion and the extents the states go to making it very expensive or impossible for women to get one other wise. This article discusses all the circumstances that could be surrounding a woman and her pregnancy that are dangerous or not healthy that should qualify a woman to receive an abortion. It claims that by taking away this right the country is heading into the wrong direction of suppressing a woman and her health needs. It goes as far as saying it is a mean of punishing those women who cannot afford the coverage. Companies offer supplemental coverage but it is very hard to qualify for or pay for. It argues that these supplements are just for show and not easily or readily available for women to take advantage of.

This article supports pro-choice. I haven't concretely decided on the side that  I will take for the paper but this source makes clear the negative affects of banning abortion rights for women. As of right now I think that I will write from the pro life point of view but I wanted to keep my options open. This article would be useful because it talks about the health issues and the unfairness towards women that is an effect of banning abortion. It is relevant because this has been and is currently an issue. Women will never stop fighting for their health rights and this is a big concern for many mothers.

This source defends abortion from the pro life stance. The first reason or evidence it gives to promote pro life is from a scientific point of view. It talks about how a zygote, which is the first form the child takes from conception, actually has human DNA and is human. It argues about how scientifically and from the human point we don't know for certain when life comes about or when something is considered a human. It then goes to defend pro life from the law standpoint. It later discusses women's rights and health benefits from not legalizing abortion. It goes into great detail and uses evidence to support pro life.

This source would be useful because it gives multiple reasons as to why pro life is the right choice. It does not stem from religious beliefs rather it gives health, law, and scientific reasoning. It even gives personal testimony. I think this would be relevant because I know a lot of people may not be religious or religious reasons may not be enough for them, this article offers alternate reasoning and defends the pro life position in a multitude of ways. 

This next source is a personal testimony website. There are thousands of stories women and men post about what happens physically and mentally after having an abortion. The website is broken up into many different sections and you can pick certain topics to read about for example; Women who regret their abortions, coerced abortion, forced abortion, Fathers of aborted children, and many more. This source is interesting because there is the personal aspect of it, rather than it being all facts it deals with real human emotion. It also allows for men to openly talk about how abortion affects them which is not commonly seen. In many of the stories women talk about being pressured by significant others and were forced into it. 

This is relevant for my paper because I am going to use these personal testimonies to highlight the idea that abortion isn't just the easy way out, a lot goes into the decision and the effect is long lasting. I am also going to use it as a Segway into talking about the role men play in abortions. In many stories the women talk about their husbands or boyfriends making them go through with it, I want to look into how common this is and why men get to have this influence when abortion is supposedly about the woman and her body. But men aren't always to blame obviously, I also want to talk about how they feel after their wives or girlfriends have abortions and how it affects their relationships present and future.

This source is about men and abortion. When talking about abortion men are not usually at the top of the discussion list. This site gives articles, facts, history and stories regarding a man's role in abortion. It talks about how often the men are just as or maybe more distraught about the situation and feel guilty and as though it is their fault for what has happened. While a lot of time women blame men for forcing them to have abortions and this is often true it can be the other way around.

This is relevant to my paper because while addressing abortion I am also going to talk about the role men play in the decision and their reactions or feelings they develop after the procedure is done. This is a side of the story that most people do no tell or address but men play a much bigger role in the whole process than we discuss. In many of the articles I have read the women blame me for what has happened or have been pressured or forced to have one.  So I also want to talk about why this happens and why they have the power and influence to do so.

This source talks about the critical influence a father can have on a mother considering an abortion. It goes into detail of many different situations of fathers pressuring, ignoring, denying, beating, forcing, and just leaving the mother  once finding out about the pregnancy. It talks about many studies in which tests were given on the backgrounds of fathers of aborted children. Many have psychological issues or issues with their childhood or parents. The fathers know that they have the ability to give ultimatums regarding the abortion and relationship often pressuring the woman into making the decision. It also talks about how many of the men regret their decisions and realize that they were being to abrupt in their decisions and did not think things through. This research article addresses many different situations and reasons behind men and women and their decision to abort the child.

This article is relevant to my research because it looks into the psychiatric reasoning behind why these fathers feel trapped or are not welcoming the idea of having a child.  I this article I want to talk about how studies have shown that many men feel threatened by the child, this is something I feel many people do not talk about but the father has a huge role in determining if the child will be born. This is useful information because it has many statistics for proof and I can extend my research even further with my findings in this source.

This source is a journal about men and abortion. It also has many statistics involving questions about the relationship, financial stability, family issues, and feelings towards parenting. In this article it talks about many of the men having mixed emotions about being a father but the dominant feelings being those of grief, stress, anxiety, and responsibility. The shocking thing is that most of the men said that they want children later on in life, the timing and money was either wrong or not there. Most husbands in one of the studies were either students, unemployed, or had no desire to work. In most of these situations abortion was an easy out and a way to avoid responsibility.

I will use this in my research because it doesn't just blame men for being a strong force in the decision making, because they are not the only ones involved clearly. It does shed light on the feelings and motives many men have regarding this issue. I think it is important to acknowledge that men play just as an important role as women in the decision of abortion and to find out why this is and why it is not talked about more. 

This source is an extension of the other research that I have found. It talks about how men are almost always left out of the equation when talking about abortion in public terms. However we all know that this is not true. The Father of the child is just as much responsible and part of the unborn child as the mother is. Although she is the one carrying the child this article talks about a Fathers legal rights. It also acknowledges that just as women go through a post dramatic stress syndrome that men also do. They feel the same amount of loss and grief.

This is useful for my research because I can go into talking about the help and therapy that is available for men who are victims of depression or any anxiety after the abortion. I will use this source to discus the rights that a father has involving abortion and the unborn child.

This source is from Fox news. It is about how men should have the right to veto an abortion. If a man is willing and wanting to take care of the child after birth if the mother wants an abortion he should be able to do so. The author talks about how it is just as much the father's child as is the mothers. He is fighting for men's rights and saying that it isn't fair to make the decision for the father, many men feel a great depression and sense of loss and sadness for even longer then the woman. He feels as though men's feelings and thoughts are being ignored.

This is useful information because it is relevant and in the public eye. More often then not this side of the story is ignored and I think this mans ideas are going to be very influential and can help strengthen my paper.
