America as a nation is facing an oversized problem with obesity. This problem directly affects 60 million Americans and 9 million children. People struggling with obesity have an increased risk of cancer, heart disease, and Type II diabetes ("Obesity Related Statistics"). Of the top ten contributors to death in America, obesity is the direct reason for five of them, creating 100,000 preventable deaths a year. Since 1983, food portions have been doubling, advertising has been changing, and the cost to care for unhealthy individuals continues to rise. What people do not realize is how money this national obesity issue takes from their personal funds, not just the income of obese citizens. On average it costs $1,400 more a year to care for someone who is obese compared to an individual who is in good health. Obesity in America is now creating $190 billion to the annual national health care, surpassing what use to be the most expensive investment for health care, smoking (Ungar). The difference between the cost of obesity on a nation and the cost of smoking is that unlike smokers dying young, obese Americans are living large but not dying young. The problem with this is that while smokers do incur higher medical costs, their lifetime drain on public funds is less because they die sooner. Mortality isn't that much higher among the obese and as a result they are not saving Social Security and Medicare trillions of dollars like smokers did (Reuters). This is taking the tax dollars and putting them towards health costs that 884 million Americans did not create. As the debt of this nation continues increasing with food portion sizes, it is crucial that a fix to this issue is created.

As stated above, obesity has created an extra $190 billion annually to the Nation's health costs, but what other costs is obesity creating for this nation? In addition to the direct medical costs of obesity, there are outstanding amounts of indirect impacts obesity creates.  Productivity costs play the largest role in the grand scheme of this colossal issue. Studies show that absenteeism is the greatest cause for lost profit from productivity, proving that employees that are obese show up to work less compared to the ones who are healthy (Abdukadirov). Obesity also contributes to the productivity loss even while at the workplace. Individuals who are obese are struggling to be as productive as others. This could be the direct result of health issues that are brought with being unhealthy and overweight, affecting the workers mentally and physically. Individuals struggling with obesity can also receive disability checks. Combine, all of these aspects create an extra $14.38 billion a year for our government funding to handle (Hammond). 

There is also a dramatic impact on transportation for obese individuals. It is simply physics, it takes more energy to move more mass. The extra weight American's are carrying on them has the price gas costs skyrocketing. Transportation of oversized individuals uses more fuel to transport the same amount of commuters. This is responsible for almost one billion additional gallons of gas burned annually. This large quantity of fuel adds up to about $2.7 billion dollars a year (Hammond). Between the cost of inefficiency in the work place and transportation, these two indirect impacts add up to about $17 billion of additional costs. This intimidating $17 billion can be avoided if we all work together as a nation.

The TV is not making people overweight, the commercials are. Advertising for fast foods and junk is not a new trend for this nation. Advertising has been around since the 1800's helping companies to push out more of their product as the demand rises. Advertising is similar to giving a speech to a diverse group of people. A product must be presented in a way that caters to the audience. It is important to take a look at how advertising, specifically for junk food, continues to create ways that push consumers towards feeling like they need a product. Advertising revolves around the American idea of doing less and deserving more. Junk food along with fast food advertisements promoting comfort, the idea the consumer deserves what that company produces, and how the buyer is always right. This idea has created addictions for people, forming habitual dietary ways through fast food and candy that become necessary to some. Before this economy can ever change, the advertising promotions must become more concerned about the audience by removing the profit blinders corporations have. 

Many advertising agencies use charming slogans, enticing pictures, and deals to lure the audience towards the product. Stores display items a certain way so the children will be drawn in, resulting in the parent purchasing the product. Fast food restaurants will advertise free Wi-Fi to attract the attention of adults. These are obvious ways of advertising, although companies use more subtle ways of helping consumers remember and crave their product as well. They do this through subliminal messaging. For example, Reese's peanut butter cups say "Do not deny your dark side." This slogan, seemingly harmless to youth, uses the innuendo of a fantasy that relates to a dark desire. Companies will pay movie producers to put their product on the movie set, eventually creating a desire for the viewer to eat. Right before the audience is presented with these products infused in the movies the theater reminds everyone before a movie showing not to miss out on a chilled Coke and buttery popcorn. Many other products use subliminal tactics on a regular basis, forcing cravings and desires to the viewers without them noticing. Technology is not holding back Americans, but how this technology is used to propel this nation towards obesity. 

With the obesity problem clearly identified, a solution can be formed through educating the general population. With America showing more appreciation than ever for good food through celebrity chefs and food networking channels, people are beginning to prepare food in a healthier fashion. Although at this table of good food, not all people feel they have a seat. This is where educating the population becomes important. Studies show that 67% of Americans purchase their food based on price over taste ("Journal of Nutrition"). This is what makes eating fast food seem cheaper for many people, the initial price of a few dollars does not seem bad at first but those dollars add up. Eating out ends up being the number one budged killer in this nation. The average American spends about $5 per day on soda, candy, or fast food; sometimes a combination of all three ("Money Spent on Fast Food"). If you take that seemingly small number and multiply it by the days in a week, totaling $35, then multiply that result to the number of weeks in a year the final tally comes out to be $1,820. With the average American 25 years or older making $32.000 annually, that means 5.6% of the average American's income goes to fast food and junk ("How Much Does"). Imagine the difference in this economy if everyone had an extra $1,820 a year. Imagine the health benefits within America if these individuals used those funds to support a healthier lifestyle. It isn't that American's can not afford to eat healthy it is the lack of education they receive on smart shopping, good decisions, and healthy eating. 

This nation is already raising awareness on healthier lifestyles, allowing the general population an idea of how detrimental an unhealthy lifestyle is. This awareness is raised in different ways. For example, Michelle Obama works through "Let's Move" to assist younger generations already suffering with obesity. Research is constantly being done as organizations use statistics to offer to the public as free information. This free education being published has not worked because it is being overpowered by the commercials and campaigns for unhealthy foods. With people already set in lifestyles that depend on fast food during the day and sugar infused snacks at night, it becomes near impossible to convince people to restructure their daily routine. The economy is a product of the structure it has. The advertising has to change not just for fast food, but advertising for healthy choices. This nation is structured around comfort, what individuals deserve, and how the consumer is always right. Therefore the advertising for unhealthy foods is structured around comfort as well. This advertising is intended to create habits and addictions for consumers so they return to the product that is destroying their health personally along with this devastated economy. 

With obesity rates that have increased 34% since 1960 and morbid obesity rates increasing six fold, it is hard to imagine that this nation has not begun to push towards a healthier generation (Mann). In order to better this process of giving information to the general, it is imperative that we work off of the resources that are already there. Organizations should use the educational means that are already present and work off of them as a guideline. The improvements that must be made can be done by using the market system that also already exists. If a nation has been so affected by advertising, begin to advertise in smarter and craftier ways with healthy food groups. These creative ways can be done by applying subliminal messaging within the advertising and placing healthier foods better in supermarkets for parents to see. When healthier are presented to the audience in a louder way than alternate unhealthy foods, it will begin to overpower the growing problem of obesity.
