Stem cell research has been a topic of discussion for the past few decades. It has been a prevalent topic of political discussion and has proven itself to be controversial in several aspects. In 2001, President George W. Bush made it a law to limit the federal spending on stem cell research to a minimum. He vetoed two potential laws to lift his ban throughout his eight-year term. Although he was for the most part against stem cell research, during Bush's time in office, he allowed research on sixty lines of stem cell facilities. Although, at the time that wasn't much, it still proved its value by giving slow, but effective studies for the public. In 2009, President Obama signed a law to lift Bush's ban on stem cell research. This order allowed for the National Institute of Health to receive significantly higher amounts of funding which allowed them perform to research on stem cells. This order also created better independence for other science policies and programs (Obama Overturns).

The issue of stem cells is a sensitive one. Ever since they became a relevant issue in today's world, it seems people cannot stop wondering of the future of this research. There are groups of people who are all for stem cell research because they see a potential to change the world for the better. There are also people who see it as an unethical waste of money that would potentially corrupt our society. Values of the individual are usually key factors to determine which side of the spectrum someone is on in this topic. Both sides bring up valid points and have supporters with strong arguments and beliefs to form debates.

Supporters of stem cell research are optimistic with the future in these studies. A common goal of this research is to cure certain illnesses that prove to be an obstacle in today's medical world. For example, cancer is a prime hurdle when it comes to treatment. Yes, it is possible to treat, but survival rates for cancer are amongst the lowest depending on the form; not to mention medical bills for treatment are life-changeably expensive.  Stem cells are cells that can mimic other cells and grow to a certain part of the body to resolve a problem; which is why they are under such high priority to researchers to cure such illnesses like cancer.

When it comes to the people against stem cell research, it becomes a little bit more complicated. Stem cell research is a touchy subject because it challenges many aspects of issues relevant to the everyday lives of U.S. citizens. To start, there is the question of ethics. Is it ethical to perform these practices in today's world? This one of the main questions regarding this topic because stem cell research involves the use of fetuses. At 2 weeks of age, twenty to thirty cells are extracted from a fetus and put into a petri dish. This process kills off the fetus, leaving it to be discarded later. A common supporter of anti-stem cell research for this particular reason is the prolife/anti-abortion group. This group of people defines abortion as the murder of a human life. Similarly, they hold this belief to the use of embryos in stem cell research.

Branching off the subject of morality is the ethics of stem cell research. Many believe these studies are essentially provoking the act of god by inhibiting nature to do its job. There are concerns with population growth due to the curing of so many people. Although gradual, the population will steadily increase in highly developed areas due to these future surgeries. 
Another reason many people have had problems with the funding of stem cell research in the past is because it requires their tax dollars. Especially in the last ten years, many people were skeptical as to whether or not there was anything to be gained from stem cell research. In the early 2000's it was considered to be another form of cloning. Although technically it is, the connotation of cloning turned much of the population off of the idea because that was such a far-fetched idea that had proven to have issues.

Recently, there has been a breakthrough in stem cell research that has revolutionized the study entirely. Scientists discovered that if they take these cells and put them in a slightly acidic environment, they transform and become significantly more powerful. These cells can morph into just about any necessary cell on any part of the body. They can even be used to form fetuses that can be used to obtain more cells. This is a breakthrough in and of itself because originally, stem cells were acquired through live organisms such as animal, other humans, and unborn fetuses, but now they can be created without any of that. They have been tested on rats and have proven to be successful. These cells are created artificially using Nano-carbon tubes to emulate the environment of an organism to help them develop in a naturally synthetic way. These cells have been given the name STAP cells and are the most talked about theme in the latest news in stem cell research. They are still not yet ready to be used on humans yet but scientists are working on potentially life changing modifications to these cells.

A key factor to the stem cell research controversy is the lack of hesitation to question anything that doesn't sound right. Only days after the news of the discovery STAP cells, there has been a reported challenge to fraud on the initial article regarding the cells. There was a picture added to the article that was a glowing placental cell. The picture was never intended to have been in the work and has sparked a large-scale controversy. The author of the report claims he made a mistake and he is sending the correction to the editor for the article. Many people and scientists have begun to question the legitimacy of the study and have been attempting to recreate the tests. Of all nine tests, all have failed; but this is apparently due to the use of different cells from the initial experiment. The only way to know for sure is to wait. This proves to be a prime example as to why stem cell research is so sensitive.

On another note, there have been studies regarding stem cell research and the treatment of type of diabetes that forms during childhood. In the past, diabetes proved itself to be a killer by dropping an individual's insulin levels dangerously low. Today, people can be functional and healthy by monitoring their insulin levels with special handicaps. Scientists in California have successfully practiced this procedure on mice by reversing the damage done to the cells in the pancreas required to produce insulin. Scientists collected skin cells for this procedure called fibroblasts. By treating these skin cells with a mixture of other molecules, these cells are reprogrammed to fight diabetes when administered correctly. The current records of tests were conducted by altering the DNA of mice to have problems in their pancreas that inhibited the formation of insulin; mimicking type one diabetes. These mice were then given the stem cells and there appeared to be a gradual increase in insulin produced in their pancreases. The cells were then removed and the mice once again displayed signs of diabetes; indicating a direct correlation between the cell and production of insulin. After a certain number of weeks after scientists transplanted these cells, more began to develop within the mice's pancreases, curing them. This technology seems to be working, but when it comes to the application on human's there are more complications; which is why scientists are still working on ways to advance these cells to be used in the medical field.

The current status on Stem cell research has significantly changed since the turn of the century. At first there were laws prohibiting many forms of research because of the mindset of the country at that time. Prior to the 2008 elections, stem cells had made a larger impression on the mindset of Americans. When Obama lifted the ban, stem cell research picked up and new discoveries were occurring constantly. It became clear that stem cell research had a potential from the results produced from scientists all around the country. People now realize that there is a new power in the medical field and it is almost within reach.

I believe that the continuation of stem cell research is a good thing and that no harm can come from research alone. Yes, there are moral and ethical concerns regarding the studies but I believe in the long run it will broaden our knowledge in this field of biological science and if done correctly, help treat the sick on our planet. I believe there is a future in stem cell technology. If we can successfully facilitate the production and use of stem cells, the medical industry itself will revolutionize. The cost of surgeries for extremely fatal diseases will be a fraction of what they are now and will be simpler to undergo. For my next two papers I will be responding to this subject by showing why I believe stem cell research is good. I will do this by providing information from legitimate sources that explain the future benefits of this research while providing my own take on why I think it will be useful.
