It's not a secret that race has been a huge issue in America for centuries. Looking back through history the white population has been reining as the supreme race for hundreds of years and has been tormenting those of a different race. The African American race as well as several other races have been seen as a secondary race to the white Americans and have been denied the same rights as white citizens all because of the difference in skin color. Through the Civil War and the Civil Rights Act of 1964, African Americans have begun to slowly reach the same citizenship as the white Americans. There are some people who feel that the Civil Rights Act of 1964 ended the racism, which was prevalent in the American society.  According to a poll by debate.com, 78% of Americans feel that racism is still a problem in America today ("Society Opinions."). A great example of racism in today's culture is an article written by Anna Holmes about the reaction of the public to two characters in the popular Hunger Games movie being played by African American actors. 

The reaction of the public was all over social media sites especially Twitter. The problem many Americans were tweeting about was the fact that two characters in the book The Hunger Games were cast for the movie as two African American actors. Tweets concerning this critical situation were quite alarming and had people questioning if racism had gotten any better over the years. One man decided to draw more attention to the problem and also took to social media sites. He would screen shot a tweet dealing with the racism toward the actors and post the pictures of the tweets on Instagram. Realizing he needed a larger audience he decided to create a Tumblr account. This way more people could view the tweets and could then easily share them with friends where as Instagram was a more limited audience and did not have the capability of sharing with friends (Holmes, Anna.). Getting the issue out to the public is a main step in trying to solve the issue. Once people have become stakeholders in the situation they will try and find a solution to the problem. This is exactly what the Canadian man was trying to do when he switched from Instagram to Tumblr. 

His idea in getting the word out started slow but then went viral just before the premiere of the movie in 2012.  The audience of his Tumblr blog is not limited by any means, his blog reached millions of Americans. Primarily the blog tried to convince the 22% of Americans who think that racism is not in America any more. But the overall audience the blog was intended for was the typical American who could help stop the issue of racism and spread the issue to friends to help create a solution. The exigence or problem in this situation is the racist tweets people are dealing with and authority figures aren't doing anything about them. A man who isn't even a citizen of the United States felt the need to step in and start a Tumblr page displaying the hate people have for other citizens of the USA. The constraints that the man dealt with when he created the Tumblr page were in getting the message out and getting people's attention about the situation. 

Sure racism is not as violent of a problem today like it was in the 1960's but it is still in fact a problem. All those tweets about the actors being African American instead of white is the perfect example about how racism is sadly still alive in America and I think turning to social media to stop the problem was a great start to a solution. This critical situation if not handled properly could've turned violent just like it did in the 1960's when America was dealing with the Civil Rights Act. Even though turning to social media was a great start, the article never mentioned what the future plans to end racism would be. Social media sites are only a start and the article ignores the fact that this situation needs to be addressed in a more formal fashion. 

This article really showed the American people how some citizens really feel about race and how the issue needs to be formally addressed before anything violent happens. The media also plays a major role in this situation. Media plays both a negative and positive aspect in the spread of racism to the public. All the nasty tweets about how upset people were about the African Americans playing two characters in The Hunger Games movie were displayed all over the social media sites. This is a negative aspect of media because the tweets probably influenced many Americans into thinking racist thoughts about the actors in The Hunger Games movie. The media also had a positive role in the whole situation. The media helped to get the attention of American people and show them the heartless and racist things people were tweeting about. The Tumblr page created by the Canadian man helped people realize just what exactly was happening. Once people knew about the tweets, many of the racist tweets were taken down. This small gesture helped stop some of the racist commentary surrounding the movie. Obviously the media is an outlet for people to express their thoughts, which makes it a double edge sword when dealing with issues such as racisms. 

Through all the controversy surrounding the critical situation a lesson can be taken away from all the mayhem. Racism still exists in America and something needs to be done about the issue. The article brought valid points and showed a great example on how the American population has not learned anything from the past. This is also a great example of how unfortunately "history repeats itself". The article did not however address steps that can be taken in the future to eliminate the problem so future generations do not have to go through this situation. Whatever critical situation comes up in the future stakeholders are needed to help address the issue and make sure the situation is taken care of in a timely manner. The article is somewhat calling on the American public to do something about this issue and end racism.
