Animal euthanasia is an extremely controversial subject in today's society. Euthanasia, also referred to as mercy killing, is defined in the Merriam Webster dictionary as "The act of putting to death painlessly or allowing to die, as by withholding extreme medical measures, a person or animal suffering from an incurable, especially a painful, disease or condition."  It is necessary in certain cases, but the manner that it is often gone about is under scrutiny. Premature euthanasia and the carbon monoxide "gas chambers" are subject to controversy, in addition to the issues surrounding housing space in shelters, and a lack of record keeping by these shelters, among others.

As is evident in its definition, euthanasia is not even the proper term that should be used when discussing the implementation of gas chambers in animal shelters. The accurate label in these instances is unjust killing.   The utilization of so-called "gas chambers" is very controversial and is viewed as inhumane by an overwhelmingly majority. When the term "gas chambers" is utilized the first thing that comes to mind is the Holocaust.  The execution of innocent Jews through carbon monoxide poisoning is debatably the most evil event in world history.  However, the practice is in continuation and is, in fact, legal in many counties and animal shelters today. The process is viewed as torturous by many and is in question.  For example, "a puppy who had been gassed with other animals was reported still alive and crying after the rest in the holding room were dead, so he was gassed again, and then again, until he finally died, too."(Allan 1)  Exhibit B - "A cat is reported to have been running back and forth in the cage slamming his body into the sides attempting to escape." (Allan 1)These are just two of the first hand accounts, but there are many other stories out there. Euthanasia by carbon monoxide has been outlawed in many states, while other states still permit the practice itself but forbid the construction of any new gas chambers. One estimate that sheds even more light on this issue is that 80% of gas chamber facilities do not meet the AVMA's guidelines (ASPCA 1). This implies the troublesome notion that there are animals forced to endure even more suffering than a normal carbon monoxide chamber would warrant. These death-traps contain leaks and cracks, which make the process longer and more painful. Furthermore, there are no lights present in the gas chambers so that the shelter workers cannot witness the suffering and subsequently develop feelings of empathy or compassion for these mistreated animals. In fact, the majority of shelter workers despise the practice and the inhumane action taken against defenseless animals; it takes a huge toll on these people who care for the well-being of all life, no matter how seemingly insignificant.

Euthanasia by injection is the method preferred by almost all shelter workers.  As stated in Allan's article outlining the issues of pet ownership and sheltering of stray animals in today's society, "professionals say that their ability to calm the animals while injecting makes all the difference to them and hopefully the animals."(Allan 1)  Even though the shelter workers never want to or have any desire to put down an animal, injection allows them to feel more in-tune with the animal and to help it relax as it takes its final breaths in peace. The ASPCA advises injection and stands by the point that "the animals deserve a painless death". They, the ASPCA, make clear that "the advised action taken in euthanasia is the injection of sodium pentobarbital"(ASPCA 1).  The injection process is viewed as more humane, safer, faster, and less stressful for the animals.  Basically, the only objection to injection from opponents of euthanasia is the resulting death itself.  T.J. Dunn Jr. from Pet MD talks about how animals who are sick and dying, and animals who are suffering, should be administered this shot that puts them out of their misery (Dunn 1). But he also goes on to say that they should be in a comfortable environment and surrounded by those who care about them. In many shelters, there is no comforting touch that puts the animal at ease before everything fades away. Instead there is often fear, additional suffering, and chemicals that take too long to do their job.

One of the primary difficulties and controversies surrounding the euthanasia process in its entirety is the legal situation. At the moment the laws concerning euthanasia and how it is performed vary from county to county and state to state.  As is said by Carrie Allan from the Humane Society, "Each county that transitions is a victory, for hundreds if not thousands of animals."(Allan 2).   By outlawing inhumane euthanasia via carbon monoxide as a whole and then moving on to the injection of sodium pentobarbital, the necessary strides are being taken towards the ultimate goal. That is the immediate concern for those highly invested in the issue, to change the way euthanasia is performed. The long-term goal for advocates of the issue, however, is of just as great a magnitude if not greater; to eliminate the putting to death of healthy animals once and for all.

Another issue that the shelter community faces is the issue of correctly and accurately gathering euthanasia data. Shelters are not required to keep records, which is something that is coming to light and is receiving great scrutiny. If keeping records were mandatory, the areas of the country that require the most assistance could be more easily identified and assisted accordingly. With information not readily available, changes are difficult to be installed and necessary changes are challenging to identify. A lack of systematized record keeping across the board yields nothing but rough estimates and educated guesses. According to rough percentages taken in 2003, approximately 1.6 million dogs and 2.2 million cats had been euthanized that year (Humane Society 1). These numbers are not particularly accurate or precise, but this is the most reliable data accessible considering the current system of documenting animal euthanasia according to groups like The Humane Society. Another reason any accessible euthanasia data is skewed is that many of the animals reportedly euthanized were so justly and for good reason; due to disease or extreme behavioral problems.

Attempting to get all of the animals currently housed in shelters adopted is a daunting task.  In 2003, 76,321 cats were euthanized in Michigan, which roughly translates to 57% of the shelter population (Animal Shelter 1).  Of Michigan's dog population, which was 56,972, or 40%,  were euthanized. Here in Columbia, South Carolina over half of the 17,000 stray, homeless animals that enter animal shelters are euthanized. These numbers point to issues in pet ownership skills and issues concerning space availability in Columbia for strays..   Pet adoption is now being promoted by many emotional and targeted commercials, and the word is spreading more effectively than ever before. It is a known fact that private shelters have greater adoption rates than local government facilities, and smaller shelters generally have higher adoption rates than larger facilities that house more animals. This is mostly due to the fact that a greater amount of care is administered in private shelters, which results in an animal's general welfare being maintained far more effectively than that of an animal in a government funded facility. In addition to the good work being done by private animal shelters, there is another positive force that has been making a difference in the battle against animal cruelty for the past couple decades. The promotion of responsible pet ownership has seen a drop in animals euthanized by over 100%.  Yet despite this development, truth is that the number of animals put down still exceeds two million as of last year.  However, responsible pet ownership is an easy way that any one person can make a difference according to commercials by the ASPCA and Sarah Mclachlan. Responsible pet ownership is one of the specific areas surrounding this issue that is receiving high amounts of publicity and funding for that matter.  Yet statistics show that the more widespread this positive message is, the less unwarranted animal deaths will occur. So, because of this statistic, commercials are being broadcasted on larger scale and frequency of them is also being upped.

My research on this issue has really helped me realize really how awful this situation is and it amazes me how little people know about the issue.  This research makes me want to write an argumentative paper outlining the steps that need to be made and putting out into the open information that is tough to read, but is necessary.  The fact that legislation allows for carbon monoxide poisoning in certain areas of the United States is appalling and it installs great concern in me on how we feel about animal's lives holistically.  The Holocaust is one of the greatest, if not the greatest, human atrocity in history and the fact that we allow this method of death to occur to animals that many of us care so deeply about is astounding.  I can't imagine dying that way and I believe no living thing should ever have to experience something so terrifying and gruesome.  My views were already that euthanasia as a whole is wrong, but this research enhanced these views to the point that it disgusts me.  We treat death so seriously when it happens to humans and I don't see how this issue is even an issue because life is life.  In my argumentative essay coming up I plan to use strong language, use this difficult information to my advantage and hopefully advocate strongly enough to the point that to those reading it will share my point of view and realize what is going on around us.  Overall, this research has helped me become more aware of what is going on around me and I feel that if everyone would stay informed on issues like these, they would disappear much quicker.
