Using the world-wide-web people today can expose themselves to an amazingly high amount of content. Technology has reached a great social frontier, which allows computer-using individuals to create self-representative characters known as "avatars." With this type of technology, especially when it's gives the user a good amount of freedom, there will usually be people who use this to commit actions which others may find unsuitable or disturbing. In Julian Dibbel's "A Rape In Cyberspace," a great example of a Rhetoric Situation is addressed. In this situation, a particular player of the social simulator known has LambdaMOO used malicious software to force the cybernetic personas of other users to perform sexual acts on eachother, which caused a great uproar within the game's community. 

The internet-based offense posed an indirect threat to the cyber-community. The game of LambdaMOO gives users a great deal of freedom and interactive social potential. Users can use their avatars to interact with other avatars however they please, and when a certain group of users displayed that they had the power to even perform actions that were not intended by the original programmers of the social simulator. To be exact, the user known as "Mr. Bungle" used his programming skills (as it's implied) to have in game avatars to perform explicit-sexual acts on each other for about a two hour period, and since the setting of LambdaMOO was un-moderated at time, there was nothing to cease the efforts of the hacker/offender until he had no choice/desire but to stop. The problem that now arose indirectly to the users is that of course, if this happened once it may even happen again. Now about every user in the community greatly feared that their computer/persona would become subject to malicious software through a mere video game, which heavily damaged the overall community. By outlining possible future threats, Dibbel lets the reader better understand why this was such a worrisome and problematic event.
	
Like problematic introduction, rhetorical questioning is yet another powerful tool that helps the author present their ideals to the audience in a conversational manner, but the use of the simile mechanic as a descriptive tool is also a useful device that is used to characterize the author's argument appropriately. Leonhardt is posed with the difficult task of defining the complex problem of the flawed education system for the audience. David incorporates the simile device to define this abstract concept with various other non-related concepts, creating a more comprehensible depiction of the current situation. Leonhardt depicts the intricacy that is formulating a solution to the flawed college educational system dilemma as "sending more young Americans to college is not a panacea.... Not sending them to college would be a disaster"(62). Comparing sending children to college as both a disaster and as a panacea is a compelling method to describe the volatile situation at hand and the dynamic nature of the school system in America. By comparing the act of sending more children to college as not a panacea, David can explain how there is no clear remedy to the current educational woes of the country. Also, Leonhardt continues to describe the second solution as a disaster. The simile David uses helps him illustrate the strenuous situation at hand and the profound solution that would be needed to solve this. This rhetorical device is important in characterizing the complex situation as a more understandable concept for the readers. Leonhardt also makes use of similes to discredit the argument set forth against him. David dismisses the argument that college is not worth attending anymore because the gains on returns have lowered over the last decade.  David satirizes their argument when he compares "skipping college because the pace of gains has slowed down is akin to skipping your heart medications because the pace of medical improvement isn't what it used to be"(63). Comparing not going to college to skipping medicine is important because it explains the audacity of committing oneself to failure. The simile device helps Leonhardt condense a complex set of ideals into a simpler concept that is easier for the average reader to understand.
	
While the simile is an effective tool in explaining the author's concepts to the argument, allusion is an important tool that allows Leonhardt to address many professional sources, which ultimately adds more credibility to his stance. Throughout the article David continues to cite various experts in economics and social sciences that reinforce his particular ideals. David alludes to various experts in the field in order to provide his argument with more support through expert compliance. Leonhardt conveys his belief that higher education is a necessary trait of our country. David alludes to various experts to help provide support to his stance that "The educated masses helped create the American century, as the economists Claudia Goldin and Lawrence Katz have written. The new ranks of high school graduates made factories more efficient and new industries possible"(62). Alluding to expert opinions is a powerful tool that earns him the support of distinguished authorities in the subject, enhancing his own argument. David also alludes to various different case studies throughout the article. He uses statistically driven evidence from dignified sources to build upon his argument. David builds support for college by explaining how the investment in one's education is the most profitable investment one can make when he alludes to the "Hamilton Project, a research group in Washington, has just finished a comparison of college with other investments. It found that college tuition in recent decades has delivered an inflation adjusted annual return of more than 15 percent. For stocks the historical return is 7 percent. For real estate, it's less than 1 percent"(63). This alluding to a statistically supported study adds depth to credibility to himself and the article by having a legitimate study reinforce his own beliefs. Allusions serve as great rhetorical devices that can help the author provide a strong structured argument with more evidence than their own set of beliefs.
	
Leonhardt was able to create a dynamic argument supporting education by incorporating various dynamic elements into his article that add depth and contribute his own stance. Leonhardt implements rhetorical questions to introduce his premises to the audience. He also uses the simple rhetorical device of  the simile to simplify abstract concepts into a more simple idea.  David also uses allusions to professional sources which adds a deeper lever of profound understanding to his article.

