It is a commonly known fact that models in today's society are stick-thin women, or at least Photoshopped to look that way. In this day and age, most girls believe that they need to be as thin as possible, because that is considered the most "beautiful" body type. According to Psychiatrist Jennifer Derenne, Extreme skinniness has not always been desired, but that is because society's "ideal look" has changed a number of times throughout history (Derenne 258). Many women strive to look the way in which models are being portrayed at the time, which is usually an almost unachievable body type. Women constantly compare themselves to what is considered "perfect", which then leads to poor body image: "how a person feels about the way he or she looks" (CMCH Mentors 1). As the power of the media has risen, the number of men that struggle with this issue has increased as well. Many people do not acknowledge this idea, but many also think it is a problem we need to address. Those to blame for these issues, such as designers and magazine editors, of course find ways to defend themselves. There are also others that witness the problem and find it ridiculous that women feel that they should even compare themselves to models at all. Many different people have expressed their perspectives on this issue, as well as ways to go about fixing it. As these three separate arguments about the media and body image coexist, the public needs to learn the unsettling facts of how much of a negative impact the media can really have on young people's self esteem.

Many people often blame women's negative body image on the media. Whether it is in magazines, on television, in movies, or on the Internet, models and actresses are extremely thin. An article titled "Body Image, Media, and Eating Disorders" by Jennifer Derenne explains that this has been a problem throughout history, as ideal body types have changed over time; however, it has become such a major issue because of the increasing prevalence that the media holds in today's society (Derenne 257). As people are introduced to images in the media more frequently, they will be increasingly affected by it. Authors of a social psychology book, Dittmar and Howard, describe the media's influence as they state, "Ultra-thin models are so prominent that exposure to them becomes unavoidable and 'chronic', constantly reinforcing a discrepancy for most women and girls between their actual size and the ideal body" (Serdar 1). They explain how continuous familiarity with these unattainable images cause people to feel that that is how they are expected to look as well.

Since, according to CNN News author Katia Hetter, models are considered the most "ideal [looking]" people in our society, women feel the need to live up to those standards (Hetter). Magazines are filled with how-to's on how to get the "perfect" body, and people's heads get filled with the idea that that is how they should look. As ads for every clothing store are filled only with models with the thinnest bodies, it conveys the message that the buyer would look best in the outfit if she had the same body type. However, the truth is, it is proven that the majority of models are unhealthily underweight, many meeting the weight at which anorexia nervosa is diagnosed (Serdar 1). Also, many undergo plastic surgery to remove weight unnaturally. In addition, the vast majority of magazines and websites Photoshop their models to get rid of any imperfections and make them look skinnier. These points argue that models display completely unrealistic body types, but they pressure women into feeling as if they should look that way.

Although the issue with body image is more prominent and well-known with women, it also affects men. Stephanie Bryson's article on the "Adonis Complex" aims to argue the problem from a man's point of view. The Adonis Complex is a disorder that consists of "male body image problems that can include compulsive weightlifting and exercising, steroid abuse, eating disorders, and full-blown body dysmorphic disorder" (Bryson 1). According to the article, recent studies have shown that this disorder, as well as the number of plastic surgeries that are undergone by males, have been continuing to rise. The author gives numerous examples of why the media is to blame. She points out action toys- teaching young boys that the stronger you are, the better. Every TV and movie hero is muscular and handsome, from Hercules to Superman, and most boys grow up wanting to be those characters. She also mentions how there are ads attempting to sell almost anything with shirtless, muscular, men, even when it has nothing to do with the product. Bryson explains how these images cause unhealthy obsessions in men, in which they desire to be as strong as possible, even if that requires them to take steroids or pay for surgeries at any cost.

Because of the current widespread presence of the media, not only are women exposed to these images, but also are children. Currently, kids are being introduced to television, movies, and the Internet at increasingly younger ages. According to the Teen Futures Media Network, "the average child watches 10,000 food advertisements per year on television; most are for junk food and fast food...yet the same magazines and television shows that serve up these ads also celebrate the waif look by portraying pencil-thin models" (Body Image and Nutrition 1). When youths are faced with these two extremes, it creates confusion and the possibility for children turning to eating disorders. 
Parents have begun to express concern with the fact that their young children have body image issues. In the CNN online news article, "Fat is the new ugly on the playground," the author interviews and focuses on a nine-year old little girl who has struggled with being teased for her weight since she was five years old. The article explains how movies and television teach children that "skinny is good and fat is bad" (Hetter 1). If children begin to have body image issues before they even know how to read, there are much higher chances that they will suffer with eating disorders and/or depression as they grow up.

There are some people, however, that disagree with the idea that models should affect a person's self esteem. In Lauren Berninger's article on the Huffington Post website, she admits that the media does use incredibly thin models. She uses this to make her point, however. She states that, "approximately 92 percent of women are unhappy with their bodies and resort to dieting to achieve their ideal body shape. Unfortunately, only 5 percent of women naturally possess the body type often portrayed by Americans in the media" (Berninger 1). She points out that this statistic should be expected; these women are models for a reason, and people should not be comparing themselves to them.

To add to this argument, Berninger mentions numerous ways that people can overcome the pressure and influence from the media. First of all, she suggests that people should be confident in themselves and not let the media get to them. She points out yet again that the body types of models are practically unattainable, and women should make realistic goals for themselves that will give them healthy bodies, not emaciated ones. If this trend continues, healthy could become the new skinny, and model body types may start to change. She suggests that if images of models really make people feel that bad about themselves, then they should try to turn away from them; ignore the ads and stop buying magazines that promise impossible results. She says that people can also help others with this by spreading positivity regarding this topic, such as making others feel good about themselves the way they are, as well as focusing more on inner beauty rather than physical beauty. She suggests that we can stop making models our inspiration and start looking up to others in our communities.

Yet another view on the topic of the media affecting body image is that people are looking at models in the wrong way. Tricia Ellis Christensen, author of an article on WiseGeek.com titled "Why Are Models So Thin?",  says that there are many positive reasons for why designers want their models to be so skinny. She states that they want to put their clothes on body types that they believe fit the clothes best and will be the best representation of what the clothing items should look like when worn. She also claims that many models are at a healthily thin weight, and that some branches of the industry have weight minimums so they can avoid having models that are too skinny. Ellis-Christensen affirms that designers want their models to adhere to what society believes to be the best type; they are not the ones starting the problem, they are just doing what they need to do to sell their clothing items. The author claims that thinness conveys attributes such as confidence, success, and happiness, and that is what the designers want the potential buyers to feel as they are looking at the styles. Although she makes a claim, Ellis-Christensen overlooks the evidence that people have been personally affected by aspects of the media.

After doing research on the media affecting body image, I have examined a number of different opinions regarding the issue. The first argument is that it is not right for designers and producers to consistently use such skinny models and actresses. This perspective believes that it conveys the wrong idea, and forces people to expect that they have to be underweight just to be considered "beautiful." The people on this side of the argument have provided facts and evidence to show that as the power of the media is increasing, so is the number of women, men, and children that suffer with body image issues.
The next argument takes a bit of both sides. These are the people that acknowledge the fact that most forms of the media use models that are too skinny; however, they also point out that that should not affect average people's confidence and self-esteem. This side makes the point that women and men have jobs as models and actresses for a reason: because they are a select few.

The last argument defends the modeling and acting industries, as they believe there is nothing wrong with using models that are so thin. This group most likely consists of the people that are the ones putting these models and actresses out there, who hold the idea that they mean for it to be a good thing. They claim that thinness should convey ideas of health and positivity, and that it is not meant to make anyone feel bad about him or herself. Designers make their point that the models they use are just the people that have the best body type to fit their styles.

Researching this topic has been very informative. Before I began writing this paper, I was completely on the side of argument one: that the media industry is immoral for only using the thinnest people, and that it is very unhealthy for kids, teens, and more to constantly be exposed to these images. As I still believe that models are too skinny and it can be harmful for people to compare themselves to models, I also agree with the second argument. If people acknowledge that these men and women are just photoshopped or if they realize that no one should really be that skinny, then there really should not be a problem with people striving to meet these unrealistic standards.

As I write my next paper, I will continue my research. I am going to look for articles that talked to people first-hand who suffered with an eating disorder because of the pressure they felt from the media. I will also try and find one from a model's point of view, in which she explains how she feels about having to make sure she is the appropriate weight, or how she feels about being photoshopped. In addition, I will look to see if any companies are looking to change the idea that thinnest is best, hoping to use models with more realistic body types.
