Throughout the years, adoption has become a more popular alternative for parents that cannot conceive children on their own. Many people have different opinions about adoption, just like with any other topic. Adoption can help save a child's life, but it can come with a price. Most adoptive parents do not realize that there is more to an adoption than just love and nurturing.

There are couples in this world that are unable to have their own children, but still want to have a family. There are also people in this world that believe there are already children that need homes, so they choose to adopt instead. No matter the circumstances, most adoptive parents are unaware of the psychological concerns that can come with being adopted. According to The Adoption History Project, "adoption was first recognized as a social and legal operation for a child in 1851 by the state of Massachusetts after it passed the first modern adoption law." (The Adoption History Project, Herman.) This law known as the 1851 Adoption of Children Act was a major turning point. This allowed for adoptions to be "fit and proper" for all parties involved. Ever since this law was passed, many changes have been made, keeping in mind that the welfare of the child is what is most important. This included the Multiethnic Placement Act and the Adoption Assistance and Child Welfare Act, two laws that helped broaden adoption. In 2000, the Child Citizenship Act was passed, allowed foreign-born adoptees to become an automatic American citizen when they came to the United States. The world has generally accepted the view that the cost of interracial, inter-country adoption are overshadowed by the good that comes from placing a child in a loving family as opposed to orphanages or foster homes. Transracial adoptions began in the United States at the end of World War II when thousands of children needed homes, according to Andrew Morrison. (Transracial Adoption: The Pros and Cons and the Parents' Perspective, Morrison.) The first Black child to be adopted into a white family was first recorded in 1948 in Minnesota. Since then, Americans have become more open to the idea of transracial adoptions in the United States. However, that is not to say that the same people are open to international adoptions as well.

Along with many controversies about inter-country adoptions, there is also a lot of controversy over transracial adoption. Some feel that "transracial adoptions are diminishing and destroying the integrity of the black community." They believe that "black children belong physically, psychologically and culturally in black families in order that they receive the total sense of themselves and develop a sound project of their future". (The Future of Children. Silverman.) This was a statement made in 1972 at the first annual convention for the National Association of Black Social Workers. While race and inter-country adoptions seem to be a major topic of discussion, the most wildly discussed "issues" in regards to adoptions is allowing gay and lesbian couples to adopt. Because of the laws set in place and the laws not put into place allowing for same sex marriage, it makes it very difficult for gay and lesbian couples to both have legal custody over the child. But what is in the best interest for the child? No matter the race, ethnical background, or gender of the parents, children should be placed in a family that can support and love them, no matter the circumstances.

While most adoptive parents are aware that the race of the child should not be dismissed, many are not aware or rather ignore the way the rest of the world may see or judge their child. Prospective parents choose to adopt transracially or transculturally for many different reasons. Most parents choose international adoption only after the United States adoption agencies has made it more difficult for them to adopt. Birth parents change their minds at the last minute and/or ask for "stringent and sometimes arbitrary requirements" making the domestic adoptions much more complicated and difficult. (The Benefits of International Adoption. Newsweek.) Also, many prospective parent like the idea of reaching out to children in need, or they might have some connection to that place they are looking to adopt. Adoption experts have different opinions on transracial adoption. Some believe that "children should be placed in a family with at least one parent of the same race or cultural background so that the child can develop a strong racial or cultural identity." (Transracial and Transcultural Adoption, Child Welfare Information Gateway.) On the other hand, some people believe that race should not be at all considered when selecting a family for a child. All that matters to them is that the child is place in a loving family that will be able to support and love the child no matter what. Whether the child is placed with a family that has the same cultural background or not, prospective parents must be aware of the struggles that will come with any adoption. This is something that many parents tend to look over and are not prepared for the struggles that might come from being an adoptee.

The National Association of Black Social Workers has played a major role in the hindering of transracial adoptions, calling it "cultural genocide." Studies show that transracial adoption is actually a good situation for the children and families, providing a loving home for the children that have been in foster care. One of the main concerns for transracial adoptions is that these children will lose their identity, but studies have shown this is not the case. Placing children into white, Black, Asian, Hispanic, etc. families provides a permanent loving home for them, rather than suffering in an out-of-home care system. Families should be judged on their ability to provide and love a child rather than the color of their skin.

While race seems to be an issue in the United States involving the adoption process, international adoptions is another controversial topic in adoption. When choosing international adoption, parents are frequently criticized of their choice. People believe that prospective parents should adopt from their own country. Adopting children internationally has become huge, while the amount of children in foster care has practically remained the same. Parents that choose to adopt internationally do because they are open to the idea of raising a child from another country. Many children are in need of homes, but when it comes to where you are adopting from, it is a personal choice. The main issue people have with international adoptions is that families are being made from different ethnic heritages, resulting in a noticeable difference to the public. According to Peter Conn, author of the article The Politics of International Adoption, "the World Health Organization reports more than ten million children under five years old  --  most of them in developing countries  --  die each year from violence, malnutrition or disease." (The Politics of International Adoption, Conn.) Some American citizens believe that we should be banned from adopting internationally because there is currently a greater need to adopt domestically. There are far more children in orphanages and living on the streets around the world than there are children in Foster Care.

Internationally adopted children usually come with little to no information about their history. Family medical history or any possible exposure to drugs and alcohol during pregnancy is usually unavailable which is something adopting parents must highly consider. A lot of the information that the parents do receive may also be false. Most of these children come from mothers that sold them for money. According to Elizabeth Bartholet of Harvard Law School, "many people see international adoption as a type of child exploitation, where wealthy, Caucasian families take advantage of poor and destitute parents who have no way of caring for their children." (Controversy & International Adoption. Brannagan.) While international adoption provides a family for a child, it, like most any adoption, comes with baggage and emotional issues relating to their lost identity.

Same sex couples trying to adopt a child has become less of an issue over the past few years. However, there is still some controversy on this issue. If you are gay and wish to adopt, the one thing that may stand in your way is whether or not you are single. Many gay and lesbian couples that wish to start a family often turn to foster care and adoption as a way to create that family.  Even though many same-sex couples have been able to adopt, barriers to adoption still exist in many states. (Gay Adoption. Love and Pride.) Unlike race and ethnicity, sexual orientation is not a federally protected class, creating issues for same-sex couples when trying to adopt.

Through all the research I have done, I have come to the conclusion that when it comes to adoption, no matter what the race or cultural background of the child is, or the sexual orientation of the potential parents, the most important thing is whether it is beneficial for the adoptee. The child, no matter where he or she may come from, will have suffered some sort of loss. They will come with baggage and issues down the line, but it is important that the parents are able to be supportive and provide for them. When it comes to adoption, the most important thing is what is in the child's best interest, and that seems to be overshadowed with all the political and controversial problems. No matter what you may believe, when you hold your baby for the first time, you will love and care for that child no matter what. You don't see his or her skin color, but instead you see someone that you will love and cherish the rest of your life.
